Measurement of fiducial differential cross sections of gluon-fusion production of Higgs bosons decaying to WW^∗→ eνμν with the ATLAS detector at √(s)=8 TeV. This paper describes a measurement of fiducial and differential cross sections of gluon-fusion Higgs boson production in the H→ WW^∗→ eνμν channel, using 20.3 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data. The data were produced at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV at the CERN Large Hadron Collider and recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2012.  Cross sections are measured from the observed H→ WW^∗→ eνμν signal yield in categories distinguished by the number of associated jets. The total cross section is measured in a fiducial region defined by the kinematic properties of the charged leptons and neutrinos. Differential cross sections are reported as a function of the number of jets, the Higgs boson transverse momentum, the dilepton rapidity, and the transverse momentum of the leading jet.  The jet-veto efficiency, or fraction of events with no jets above a given transverse momentum threshold, is also reported.  All measurements are compared to QCD predictions from Monte Carlo generators and fixed-order calculations, and are in agreement with the Standard Model predictions.
Search for neutral resonances decaying into a Z boson and a pair of b jets or τ leptons. A search is performed for a new resonance decaying into a lighter resonance and a Z boson. Two channels are studied, targeting the decay of the lighter resonance into either a pair of oppositely charged τ leptons or a b b̅ pair. The Z boson is identified via its decays to electrons or muons. The search exploits data collected by the CMS experiment at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.8 fb^-1. No significant deviations are observed from the standard model expectation and limits are set on production cross sections and parameters of two-Higgs-doublet models.
Search for the minimal standard model Higgs boson in e+e- collisions at LEP.
A search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying to charm quarks. A direct search for the standard model Higgs boson, H, produced in association with a vector boson, V (W or Z), and decaying to a charm quark pair is presented. The search uses a data set of proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016, at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The search is carried out in mutually exclusive channels targeting specific decays of the vector bosons: W→ℓν, Z→ℓℓ, and Z→νν, where ℓ is an electron or a muon. To fully exploit the topology of the H boson decay, two strategies are followed. In the first one, targeting lower vector boson transverse momentum, the H boson candidate is reconstructed via two resolved jets arising from the two charm quarks from the H boson decay. A second strategy identifies the case where the two charm quark jets from the H boson decay merge to form a single jet, which generally only occurs when the vector boson has higher transverse momentum. Both strategies make use of novel methods for charm jet identification, while jet substructure techniques are also exploited to suppress the background in the merged-jet topology. The two analyses are combined to yield a 95% confidence level observed (expected) upper limit on the cross section σ(VH)ℬ(H→cc̅) of 4.5 (2.4^+1.0_-0.7) pb, corresponding to 70 (37) times the standard model prediction.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have searched for the neutral Higgs bosons which are predicted by the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). The data of the four collaborations are statistically combined and examined for their consistency with the background hypothesis and with a possible Higgs boson signal. The combined LEP data show no significant excess of events which would indicate the production of Higgs bosons. The search results are used to set upper bounds on the cross-sections of various Higgs-like event topologies. The results are interpreted within the MSSM in a number of benchmark models, including CP-conserving and CP-violating scenarios. These interpretations lead in all cases to large exclusions in the MSSM parameter space. Absolute limits are set on the parameter tanb and, in some scenarios, on the masses of neutral Higgs bosons.
Measurements of Higgs boson properties in the diphoton decay channel with 36 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Properties of the Higgs boson are measured in the two-photon final state using 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded at √(s) = 13 TeV by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. Cross-section measurements for the production of a Higgs boson through gluon-gluon fusion, vector-boson fusion, and in association with a vector bosonor a top-quark pair are reported. The signal strength, defined as the ratio of the observed to the expected signal yield, is measured for each of these production processes as well as inclusively. The global signal strength measurement of 0.99 ± 0.14 improves on the precision of the ATLAS measurement at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV by a factor of two. Measurements of gluon-gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion productions yield signal strengths compatible with the Standard Model prediction. Measurements of simplified template cross sections, designed to quantify the different Higgs boson production processes in specific regions of phase space, are reported. The cross section for the production of the Higgs boson decaying to two isolated photons in a fiducial region closely matching the experimental selection of the photons is measured to be 55 ± 10 fb, which is in good agreement with the Standard Model prediction of 64 ± 2 fb. Furthermore, cross sections in fiducial regions enriched in Higgs boson production in vector-boson fusion or in association with large missing transverse momentum, leptons or top-quark pairs are reported. Differential and double-differential measurements are performed for several variables related to the diphoton kinematics as well as the kinematics and multiplicity of the jets produced in association with a Higgs boson. No significant deviations from a wide array of Standard Model predictions are observed.
Search for a massive resonance decaying to a pair of Higgs bosons in the four b quark final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for a massive resonance decaying into a pair of standard model Higgs bosons, in a final state consisting of two b quark-antiquark pairs, is performed. A data sample of proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV is used, collected by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC in 2016, and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The Higgs bosons are highly Lorentz-boosted and are each reconstructed as a single large-area jet. The signal is characterized by a peak in the dijet invariant mass distribution, above a background from the standard model multijet production. The observations are consistent with the background expectations, and are interpreted as upper limits on the products of the s-channel production cross sections and branching fractions of narrow bulk gravitons and radions in warped extra-dimensional models. The limits range from 126 to 1.4 fb at 95% confidence level for resonances with masses between 750 and 3000 GeV, and are the most stringent to date, over the explored mass range.
Search for a standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair and decaying to bottom quarks using a matrix element method. A search for a standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair and decaying to bottom quarks is presented. Events with hadronic jets and one or two oppositely charged leptons are selected from a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 fb^-1 collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. In order to separate the signal from the larger t t̅+jets background, this analysis uses a matrix element method that assigns a probability density value to each reconstructed event under signal or background hypotheses. The ratio between the two values is used in a maximum likelihood fit to extract the signal yield. The results are presented in terms of the measured signal strength modifier, μ, relative to the standard model prediction for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV. The observed (expected) exclusion limit at a 95% confidence level is μ lower than 4.2 (3.3), corresponding to a best fit value μ̂=1.2^+1.6_-1.5.
Flavour Independent Search for Neutral Higgs Bosons at LEP. A flavour independent search for the CP-even and CP-odd neutral Higgs bosons h and A is performed in 624/pb of data collected with the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209GeV. Higgs boson production through the e^+e^- -> Z h and the e^+e^- ->h A processes is considered and decays of the Higgs bosons into hadrons are studied. No significant signal is observed and 95% confidence level limits on the hZZ and hAZ couplings are derived as a function of the Higgs boson masses. Assuming the Standard Model cross section for the Higgs-strahlung process and a 100% branching fraction into hadrons, a 95% confidence level lower limit on the mass of the Higgs boson is set at 110.3GeV.
Search for squarks and gluinos with the ATLAS detector in final states with jets and missing transverse momentum using √(s)=8 TeV proton-proton collision data. A search for squarks and gluinos in final states containing high-p_ T jets, missing transverse momentum and no electrons or muons is presented. The data were recorded in 2012 by the ATLAS experiment in √(s)=8 TeV proton–proton collisions at the Large Hadron Collider, with a total integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. No significant excess above the Standard Model expectation is observed. Results are interpreted in a variety of simplified and specific supersymmetry-breaking models assuming that R-parity is conserved and that the lightest neutralino is the lightest supersymmetric particle. An exclusion limit at the 95% confidence level on the mass of the gluino is set at 1330 GeV for a simplified model incorporating only a gluino and the lightest neutralino. For a simplified model involving the strong production of first- and second-generation squarks, squark masses below 850 GeV (440 GeV) are excluded for a massless lightest neutralino, assuming mass degenerate (single light-flavour) squarks. In mSUGRA/CMSSM models with tanβ=30, A_0=-2m_0 and μ> 0, squarks and gluinos of equal mass are excluded for masses below 1700 GeV. Additional limits are set for non-universal Higgs mass models with gaugino mediation and for simplified models involving the pair production of gluinos, each decaying to a top squark and a top quark, with the top squark decaying to a charm quark and a neutralino. These limits extend the region of supersymmetric parameter space excluded by previous searches with the ATLAS detector.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons of the minimal supersymmetric standard model in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the neutral Higgs bosons predicted by the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM) is reported. The analysis is performed on data from proton–proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The samples used for this search were collected in 2012 and correspond to integrated luminosities in the range 19.5 - 20.3 fb^-1. The MSSM Higgs bosons are searched for in the ττ final state. No significant excess over the expected background is observed, and exclusion limits are derived for the production cross section times branching fraction of a scalar particle as a function of its mass. The results are also interpreted in the MSSM parameter space for various benchmark scenarios.
Search for Higgs boson production in association with a high-energy photon via vector-boson fusion with decay into bottom quark pairs at √(s)=13TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for the production of the Standard Model Higgs boson in association with a high-energy photon. With a focus on the vector-boson fusion process and the dominant Higgs boson decay into b-quark pairs, the search benefits from a large reduction of multijet background compared to more inclusive searches. Results are reported from the analysis of 132 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s)=13 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The measured Higgs boson signal yield in this final-state signature is 1.3 ± 1.0 times the Standard Model prediction. The observed significance of the Higgs boson signal above the background is 1.3 standard deviations, compared to an expected significance of 1.0 standard deviations.
A measurement of the τ^-→μ^-ν_μν_τ branching ratio. The tau /sup -/ to mu /sup -/ nu /sub mu / nu /sub tau / branching ratio has been measured using data collected from 1990 to 1995 by the OPAL detector at the LEP collider. The resulting value of B( tau /sup -/ to mu /sup -/ nu /sub mu / nu /sub tau /) = 0.1734 +or- 0.0009 (stat) +or- 0.0006(syst) has been used in conjunction with other OPAL measurements to test lepton universality, yielding the coupling constant ratios g/sub mu //g/sub e/ = 1.0005 +or- 0.0044 and g/sub tau //g/sub e/ = 1.0031 +or- 0.0048, in good agreement with the Standard Model prediction of unity. A value for the Michel parameter eta = 0.004 +or- 0.037 has also been determined and used to find a limit for the mass of the charged Higgs boson, m/sub H/+or- > 1.28 tan beta , in the minimal supersymmetric standard model. (23 refs).CER 4095216 BASE L 13
Search for the charged Higgs boson in Z0 decay.
Properties of g→ bb̅ at small opening angles in pp collisions with the ATLAS detector at √(s)=13 TeV. The fragmentation of high-energy gluons at small opening angles is largely unconstrained by present measurements.  Gluon splitting to b-quark pairs is a unique probe into the properties of gluon fragmentation because identified b-tagged jets provide a proxy for the quark daughters of the initial gluon.  In this study, key differential distributions related to the g→ bb̅ process are measured using 33 fb^-1 of √(s)=13 TeV pp collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in 2016.  Jets constructed from charged-particle tracks, clustered with the anti-k_t jet algorithm with radius parameter R = 0.2, are used to probe angular scales below the R=0.4 jet radius.  The observables are unfolded to particle level in order to facilitate direct comparisons with predictions from present and future simulations.  Multiple significant differences are observed between the data and parton shower Monte Carlo predictions, providing input to improve these predictions of the main source of background events in analyses involving boosted Higgs bosons decaying into b-quarks.
Search for heavy Higgs bosons A/H decaying to a top quark pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy pseudoscalar (A) and scalar (H) Higgs bosons decaying into a top quark pair (tt̅) has been performed with 20.3 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV. Interference effects between the signal process and Standard Model tt̅ production, which are expected to distort the signal shape from a single peak to a peak–dip structure, are taken into account. No significant deviation from the Standard Model prediction is observed in the tt̅ invariant mass spectrum in final states with an electron or muon, large missing transverse momentum, and at least four jets. The results are interpreted within the context of a type-II two-Higgs-doublet model. Exclusion limits on the signal strength are derived as a function of the mass m_A/H and the ratio of the vacuum expectation values of the two Higgs fields, tanβ, for m_A/H > 500 GeV.
Search for lepton-flavour-violating H→μτ decays of the Higgs boson with the ATLAS detector. A direct search for lepton–flavour–violating (LFV) H→μτ decays of the recently discovered Higgs boson with the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. The analysis is performed in the H→μτ_had channel, where τ_had is a hadronically decaying τ–lepton. The search is based on the data sample of proton–proton collisions collected by the ATLAS experiment corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 at a centre–of–mass energy of √(s)=8 TeV. No statistically significant excess of data over the predicted background is observed. The observed (expected) 95% confidence–level upper limit on the branching fraction, Br(H→μτ), is 1.85% (1.24%).
Search for Radions at LEP2. A new scalar resonance, called the radion, with couplings to fermions and bosons similar to those of the Higgs boson, is predicted in the framework of Randall-Sundrum models, proposed solutions to the hierarchy problem with one extra dimension. An important distinction between the radion and the Higgs boson is that the radion would couple directly to gluon pairs, and in particular its decay products would include a significant fraction of gluon jets. The radion had the same quantum numbers as the Standard Model (SM) Higgs boson, and therefore they can mix, with the resulting mass eigenstates having properties different from those of the SM Higgs boson. Existing searches for the Higgs boson are sensitive to the possible production and decay of radions and Higgs bosons in these models. For the first time, searches for the SM Higgs boson and flavour-independent and decay-mode independent searches for a neutral Higgs boson are used in combination to explore the parameter space of the Randall-Sundrum model. In the dataset recorded by the OPAL experiment at LEP, no evidence for radion or Higgs particle production was observed in any of those searches. The results are used to set limits on the radion and Higgs boson masses.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons from supersymmetry in Z decays.
Limits on the Higgs boson lifetime and width from its decay to four charged leptons. Constraints on the lifetime and width of the Higgs boson are obtained from H→ZZ→ 4ℓ events using data recorded by the CMS experiment during the LHC run 1 with an integrated luminosity of 5.1 and 19.7 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 7 and 8 TeV, respectively. The measurement of the Higgs boson lifetime is derived from its flight distance in the CMS detector with an upper bound of τ_H lower than 1.9 × 10^-13 s at the 95% confidence level (CL), corresponding to a lower bound on the width of Γ_H larger than 3.5 × 10^-9 MeV. The measurement of the width is obtained from an off-shell production technique, generalized to include anomalous couplings of the Higgs boson to two electroweak bosons. From this measurement, a joint constraint is set on the Higgs boson width and a parameter f_Λ Q that expresses an anomalous coupling contribution as an on-shell cross-section fraction. The limit on the Higgs boson width is Γ_H lower than 46 MeV with f_Λ Q unconstrained and Γ_H lower than 26 MeV for f_Λ Q=0 at the 95% CL. The constraint f_Λ Q lower than 3.8 × 10^-3 at the 95% CL is obtained for the expected standard model Higgs boson width.
Measurements of Higgs Bosons Decaying to Bottom Quarks from Vector Boson Fusion Production with the ATLAS Experiment at √(s)=13 TeV. The paper presents a measurement of the Standard Model Higgs Boson decaying to b-quark pairs in the vector boson fusion (VBF) production mode. A sample corresponding to 126 fb^-1 of √(s) = 13 TeV proton-proton collision data, collected with the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider, is analyzed utilizing an adversarial neural network for event classification.  The results are combined with an analysis of Higgs bosons decaying to b-quarks, produced via VBF in association with a photon. The signal strength, defined as the ratio of the measured signal yield to that predicted by the Standard Model, is measured to be 0.99^+0.35_-0.33 for Higgs boson production or 0.99^+0.36_-0.34 for VBF production only, corresponding to an observed (expected) significance of 3.0 (3.0) or 2.9 (2.9) standard deviations, respectively, from the background only hypothesis.  The sensitivity of the measurement is dominated by the analysis presented in this paper.
Combination of searches for heavy resonances decaying to WW, WZ, ZZ, WH, and ZH boson pairs in proton–proton collisions at √(s)=8 and 13 TeV. A statistical combination of searches is presented for massive resonances decaying to WW, WZ, ZZ, WH, and ZH boson pairs in proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The data are taken at centre-of-mass energies of 8 and 13 TeV, corresponding to respective integrated luminosities of 19.7 and up to 2.7 inverse femtobarns. The results are interpreted in the context of heavy vector triplet and singlet models that mimic properties of composite-Higgs models predicting W' and Z' bosons decaying to WZ, WW, WH, and ZH bosons. A model with a bulk graviton that decays into WW and ZZ is also considered. This is the first combined search for WW, WZ, WH, and ZH resonances and yields lower limits on masses at 95% confidence level for W' and Z' singlets at 2.3 TeV, and for a triplet at 2.4 TeV. The limits on the production cross section of a narrow bulk graviton resonance with the curvature scale of the warped extra dimension k = 0.5, in the mass range of 0.6 to 4.0 TeV, are the most stringent published to date.
Measurement of the top quark Yukawa coupling from tt̅ kinematic distributions in the lepton+jets final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. Results are presented for an extraction of the top quark Yukawa coupling from top quark-antiquark (tt̅) kinematic distributions in the lepton plus jets final state in proton-proton collisions, based on data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.8 fb^-1. Corrections from weak boson exchange, including Higgs bosons, between the top quarks can produce large distortions of differential distributions near the energy threshold of tt̅ production. Therefore, precise measurements of these distributions are sensitive to the Yukawa coupling. Top quark events are reconstructed with at least three jets in the final state, and a novel technique is introduced to reconstruct the tt̅ system for events with one missing jet. This technique enhances the experimental sensitivity in the low invariant mass region, M_tt̅. The data yields in M_tt̅, the rapidity difference |y_t-y_t̅|, and the number of reconstructed jets are compared with distributions representing different Yukawa couplings. These comparisons are used to measure the ratio of the top quark Yukawa coupling to its standard model predicted value to be 1.07^+0.34_-0.43 with an upper limit of 1.67 at the 95% confidence level.
Search for invisible decays of a Higgs boson using vector-boson fusion in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a Higgs boson produced via vector-boson fusion and decaying into invisible particles is presented, using 20.3 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 125 GeV, assuming the Standard Model production cross section, an upper bound of 0.28 is set on the branching fraction of H→ invisible at 95% confidence level, where the expected upper limit is 0.31. The results are interpreted in models of Higgs-portal dark matter where the branching fraction limit is converted into upper bounds on the dark-matter–nucleon scattering cross section as a function of the dark-matter particle mass, and compared to results from the direct dark-matter detection experiments.
Measurement of the Higgs boson mass in the H→ ZZ^* → 4ℓ and H →γγ channels with √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions using the ATLAS detector. The mass of the Higgs boson is measured in the H→ ZZ^* → 4ℓ and in the H→γγ decay channels with 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data from the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016. The measured value in the H→ ZZ^* → 4ℓ channel is m_H^ZZ^* = 124.79 ± 0.37 GeV, while the measured value in the H→γγ channel is m_H^γγ = 124.93 ± 0.40 GeV. Combining these results with the ATLAS measurement based on 7 TeV and 8 TeV proton-proton collision data yields a Higgs boson mass of m_H=124.97 ± 0.24 GeV.
Search for Higgs and Z Boson Decays to J/ψγ and Υ(nS)γ with the ATLAS Detector. A search for the decays of the Higgs and Z bosons to J/ψγ and Υ(nS)γ (n=1,2,3) is performed with pp collision data samples corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 20.3fb^-1 collected at √(s)=8TeV with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess of events is observed above expected backgrounds and 95% CL upper limits are placed on the branching fractions. In the J/ψγ final state the limits are 1.5×10^-3 and 2.6×10^-6 for the Higgs and Z bosons, respectively, while in the Υ(1S,2S,3S) γ final states the limits are (1.3,1.9,1.3)×10^-3 and (3.4,6.5,5.4)×10^-6, respectively.
Search for the Higgs boson in the H → WW → lν jj decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a Higgs boson has been performed in the H->WW->lvjj channel in 1.04/fb of pp collision data sqrts = 7 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess of events is observed over the expected background and limits on the Higgs boson production cross section are derived for a Higgs boson mass in the range 240 GeV < mH < 600 GeV. The best sensitivity is reached for mH = 400 GeV, where the 95% confidence level upper bound on the cross section for H->WW production is 3.1 pb, or 2.7 times the Standard Model prediction.
Search for new phenomena in events with three charged leptons at /sqrts = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A generic search for anomalous production of events with at least three charged leptons is presented. The search uses a pp-collision data sample at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV corresponding to 4.6 inverse femtobarns of integrated luminosity collected in 2011 by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. Events are required to contain at least two electrons or muons, while the third lepton may either be an additional electron or muon, or a hadronically decaying tau lepton. Events are categorized by the presence or absence of a reconstructed tau-lepton or Z-boson candidate decaying to leptons. No significant excess above backgrounds expected from Standard Model processes is observed. Results are presented as upper limits on event yields from non-Standard-Model processes producing at least three prompt, isolated leptons, given as functions of lower bounds on several kinematic variables. Fiducial efficiencies for model testing are also provided. The use of the results is illustrated by setting upper limits on the production of doubly-charged Higgs bosons decaying to same-sign lepton pairs.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson at the LEP2 collider near √(s) = 183 GeV. During 1997 the ALEPH experiment at LEP gathered 57 pb of data at centre-of-mass energies near 183 GeV. These data are used to look for possible signals from the production of the Standard Model Higgs boson in the reaction ee –> HZ. No evidence of a signal is found in the data; seven events are selected, in agreement with the expectation of 7.2 events from background processes. This observation results in an improved lower limit on the mass of the Higgs boson: mH > 87.9 GeV/c2 at 95% confidence level.Searches for Higgs boson pair production in the hh→ bbττ, γγ WW*, γγ bb, bbbb channels with the ATLAS detector. Searches for both resonant and non-resonant Higgs boson pair production are performed in the hh→ bbττ, γγ WW^* final states using 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No evidence of their production is observed and 95% confidence level upper limits on the production cross sections are set. These results are then combined with the published results of the hh→γγ bb, bbbb analyses. An upper limit of 0.69 (0.47) pb on the non-resonant Standard Model like hh production is observed (expected), corresponding to 70 (48) times of the SM gg→ hh cross section. For production via narrow resonances, cross section limits of hh production from a heavy Higgs boson decay are set as a function of the heavy Higgs boson mass. The observed (expected) limits range from 2.1 (1.1) pb at 260 GeV to 0.011 (0.018) pb at 1000 GeV. These results are interpreted in the context of two simplified scenarios of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model.
Measurement of Higgs boson production and properties in the WW decay channel with leptonic final states. A search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying to a W-boson pair at the LHC is reported. The event sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 and 19.4 inverse femtobarns collected with the CMS detector in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV, respectively. The Higgs boson candidates are selected in events with two or three charged leptons. An excess of events above background is observed, consistent with the expectation from the standard model Higgs boson with a mass of around 125 GeV. The probability to observe an excess equal or larger than the one seen, under the background-only hypothesis, corresponds to a significance of 4.3 standard deviations for m_H = 125.6 GeV. The observed signal cross section times the branching fraction to WW for m_H = 125.6 GeV is 0.72^+0.20_-0.18 times the standard model expectation. The spin-parity J_P=0^+ hypothesis is favored against a narrow resonance with J_P=2^+ or J_P=0^- that decays to a W-boson pair. This result provides strong evidence for a Higgs-like boson decaying to a W-boson pair.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s)=161, 170 and 172 GeV. The reaction e+e- -> HZ is used to search for the Standard Model Higgs boson. The data sample consists of integrated luminosities of 10.9pb-1 1.1pb-1 and 9.5pb-1 collected by the ALEPH experiment at LEP during 1996, at centre-of-mass energies of 161, 170 and 172GeV, respectively. No candidate events were found, in agreement with the expected background of 0.84 events from all Standard Model processes. This search results in a 95%C.L. lower limit on the Higgs boson mass of 69.4GeV. When combined with earlier ALEPH searches performed at energies at and around the Z peak, this limit increases to 70.7GeV
Search for light pseudoscalar boson pairs produced from decays of the 125 GeV Higgs boson in final states with two muons and two nearby tracks in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for pairs of light pseudoscalar bosons, in the mass range from 4 to 15 GeV, produced from decays of the 125 GeV Higgs boson. The decay modes considered are final states that arise when one of the pseudoscalars decays to a pair of tau leptons, and the other one either into a pair of tau leptons or muons. The search is based on proton-proton collisions collected by the CMS experiment in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV that correspond to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The 2μ2τ and 4τ channels are used in combination to constrain the product of the Higgs boson production cross section and the branching fraction into 4τ final state, σℬ, exploiting the linear dependence of the fermionic coupling strength of pseudoscalar bosons on the fermion mass. No significant excess is observed beyond the expectation from the standard model. The observed and expected upper limits at 95% confidence level on σℬ, relative to the standard model Higgs boson production cross section, are set respectively between 0.022 and 0.23 and between 0.027 and 0.19 in the mass range probed by the analysis.
Observation of the Higgs boson decay to a pair of τ leptons with the CMS detector. A measurement of the coupling strength of the Higgs boson to a pair of tau leptons is performed using events recorded in proton-proton collisions by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The data set corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 inverse femtobarns. The H to tau tau signal is established with a significance of 4.9 standard deviations, to be compared to an expected significance of 4.7 standard deviations. The best fit of the product of the observed H to tau tau signal production cross section and branching fraction is 1.09 +0.27-0.26 times the standard model expectation. The combination with the corresponding measurement performed with data collected by the CMS experiment at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV leads to an observed significance of 5.9 standard deviations, equal to the expected significance. This is the first observation of Higgs boson decays to tau leptons by a single experiment.
Search for top squarks in events with a Higgs or Z boson using 139 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This paper presents a search for direct top squark pair production in events with missing transverse momentum plus either a pair of jets consistent with Standard Model Higgs boson decay into b-quarks or a same-flavour opposite-sign dilepton pair with an invariant mass consistent with a Z boson. The analysis is performed using the proton-proton collision data at √(s)=13 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector during the LHC Run-2, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1. No excess is observed in the data above the Standard Model predictions. The results are interpreted in simplified models featuring direct production of pairs of either the lighter top squark (t̃_1) or the heavier top squark (t̃_2), excluding at 95% confidence level t̃_1 and t̃_2 masses up to about 1220 and 875 GeV, respectively.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have searched for the neutral Higgs bosons which are predicted by the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). The data of the four collaborations are statistically combined and examined for their consistency with the background hypothesis and with a possible Higgs boson signal. The combined LEP data show no significant excess of events which would indicate the production of Higgs bosons. The search results are used to set upper bounds on the cross-sections of various Higgs-like event topologies. The results are interpreted within the MSSM in a number of benchmark models, including CP-conserving and CP-violating scenarios. These interpretations lead in all cases to large exclusions in the MSSM parameter space. Absolute limits are set on the parameter tanb and, in some scenarios, on the masses of neutral Higgs bosons.
Search for narrow Hγ resonances in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for heavy, narrow resonances decaying to a Higgs boson and a photon (Hγ) has been performed in proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector at the LHC in 2016. Events containing a photon and a Lorentz-boosted hadronically decaying Higgs boson that is reconstructed as a single, large-radius jet are considered, and the γ+jet invariant mass spectrum is analyzed for the presence of narrow resonances. To increase the sensitivity of the search, events are categorized depending on whether the large-radius jet can be identified as a result of the merging of two jets originating from b quarks. Results in both categories are found to agree with the predictions of the standard model. Upper limits on the production of Hγ resonances are set as a function of the resonance mass in the range of 720-3250 GeV, representing the most stringent constraints to date.
Search for a charged Higgs boson decaying into top and bottom quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV in events with electrons or muons. A search is presented for a charged Higgs boson heavier than the top quark, produced in association with a top quark, or with a top and a bottom quark, and decaying into a top-bottom quark-antiquark pair. The search is performed using proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Events are selected by the presence of a single isolated charged lepton (electron or muon) or an opposite-sign dilepton (electron or muon) pair, categorized according to the jet multiplicity and the number of jets identified as originating from b quarks. Multivariate analysis techniques are used to enhance the discrimination between signal and background in each category. The data are compatible with the standard model, and 95% confidence level upper limits of 9.6-0.01 pb are set on the charged Higgs boson production cross section times branching fraction to a top-bottom quark-antiquark pair, for charged Higgs boson mass hypotheses ranging from 200 GeV to 3 TeV. The upper limits are interpreted in different minimal supersymmetric extensions of the standard model.
Measurement and interpretation of differential cross sections for Higgs boson production at √(s)= 13 TeV. Differential Higgs boson (H) production cross sections are sensitive probes for physics beyond the standard model. New physics may contribute in the gluon-gluon fusion loop, the dominant Higgs boson production mechanism at the LHC, and manifest itself through deviations from the distributions predicted by the standard model. Combined spectra for the H→γγ, H→ZZ, and H→bb̅ decay channels and the inclusive Higgs boson production cross section are presented, based on proton-proton collision data recorded with the CMS detector at √(s)= 13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The transverse momentum spectrum is used to place limits on the Higgs boson couplings to the top, bottom, and charm quarks, as well as its direct coupling to the gluon field. No significant deviations from the standard model are observed in any differential distribution. The measured total cross section is 61.1 ± 6.0 (stat) ± 3.7 (syst) pb, and the precision of the measurement of the differential cross section of the Higgs boson transverse momentum is improved by about 15% with respect to the H→γγ channel alone.
Measurement of electroweak WZ boson production and search for new physics in WZ + two jets events in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A measurement of WZ electroweak (EW) vector boson scattering is presented. The measurement is performed in the leptonic decay modes WZ→ℓνℓ'ℓ', where ℓ, ℓ' = e, μ. The analysis is based on a data sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV at the LHC collected with the CMS detector and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The WZ plus two jet production cross section is measured in fiducial regions with enhanced contributions from EW production and found to be consistent with standard model predictions. The EW WZ production in association with two jets is measured with an observed (expected) significance of 2.2 (2.5) standard deviations. Constraints on charged Higgs boson production and on anomalous quartic gauge couplings in terms of dimension-eight effective field theory operators are also presented.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying to W^+ W^- in the fully leptonic final state in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying to W+W- in pp collisions at sqrt(s) = 7 TeV is reported. The data are collected at the LHC with the CMS detector, and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.6 inverse femtobarns. The W+W- candidates are selected in events with two charged leptons and large missing transverse energy. No significant excess of events above the standard model background expectations is observed, and upper limits on the Higgs boson production relative to the standard model Higgs expectation are derived. The standard model Higgs boson is excluded in the mass range 129-270 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Search for a light charged Higgs boson in the decay channel H^+ → cs̅ in tt̅ events using pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a charged Higgs boson (H^+) in tt̅ decays is presented, where one of the top quarks decays via t → H^+b, followed by H^+ → two jets (cs̅). The other top quark decays to Wb, where the W boson then decays into a lepton (e/μ) and a neutrino. The data were recorded in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the LHC in 2011, and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb-1. With no observation of a signal, 95% confidence level (CL) upper limits are set on the decay branching ratio of top quarks to charged Higgs bosons varying between 5% and 1% for H^+ masses between 90 GeV and 150 GeV, assuming B(H^+ → cs̅)=100%.
Search for associated production of massive states decaying into two photons in e^+e^- annihilations at √(s) = 88 - 209 GeV. A search is performed for production of short-lived particles in e+e- -> XY, with X -> gamma gamma and Y -> ffbar, for scalar X and scalar or vector Y. Model-independent limits in the range of 25-60 femtobarns are presented on sigma (e+e- -> XY) x B(X -> ffbar) for centre-of-mass energies in the range 205-207 GeV. The data from all LEP centre-of-mass energies 88-209 GeV are also interpreted in the context of fermiophobic Higgs boson models, for which a lower mass limit of 105.5 GeV is obtained for a "benchmark" fermiophobic Higgs boson.
Search for a Higgs boson decaying into a Z and a photon in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV. A search for a Higgs boson decaying into a Z boson and a photon is described. The analysis is performed using proton–proton collision datasets recorded by the CMS detector at the LHC. Events were collected at center-of-mass energies of 7 TeV and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.0 fb−1 and 19.6 fb−1, respectively. The selected events are required to have opposite-sign electron or muon pairs. No excess above standard model predictions has been found in the 120–160 GeV mass range and the first limits on the Higgs boson production cross section times the H→Zγ branching fraction at the LHC have been derived. The observed at 95% confidence level limits are between about 4 and 25 times the standard model cross section times the branching fraction. For a standard model Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV the expected limit at the 95% confidence level is 10 and the observed limit is 9.5. Models predicting the Higgs boson production cross section times the H→Zγ branching fraction to be larger than one order of magnitude of the standard model prediction are excluded for most of the 125–157 GeV mass range.
Lower bound for the standard model Higgs boson mass from combining the results of the four LEP experiments.
Search for a Higgs boson decaying into a b-quark pair and produced in association with b quarks in proton-proton collisions at 7 TeV. A search for a neutral Higgs boson decaying to a pair of b quarks, and produced in association with at least one additional b quark, is presented. Multijet final states with three jets identified as originating from b quarks, at least one of which may include a non-isolated muon, are studied. The data used in this analysis correspond to an integrated luminosity of 2.7-4.8 inverse femtobarns, collected by the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV. This search is particularly sensitive to Higgs bosons in scenarios of the Minimal Supersymmetric Model (MSSM) with large values of tanβ. No excess over the predicted background from standard model processes is observed. Stringent upper limits on cross section times branching fraction are derived and interpreted as bounds in the MSSM tanβ and m_A parameter-space. Observed 95% confidence level upper limits reach as low as tanβ ≈ 18 for M_A ≈ 100 GeV.
Inclusive search for highly boosted Higgs bosons decaying to bottom quark-antiquark pairs in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for standard model Higgs bosons (H) produced with transverse momentum (p_T) greater than 450 GeV and decaying to bottom quark-antiquark pairs (bb̅) is performed using proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at √(s) = 13 TeV. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. The search is inclusive in the Higgs boson production mode. Highly Lorentz-boosted Higgs bosons decaying to bb̅ are reconstructed as single large-radius jets, and are identified using jet substructure and a dedicated b tagging technique based on a deep neural network. The method is validated with Z→bb̅ decays. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, an excess of events above the background assuming no Higgs boson production is observed with a local significance of 2.5 standard deviations (σ), while the expectation is 0.7. The corresponding signal strength and local significance with respect to the standard model expectation are μ_H = 3.7 ± 1.2 (stat)_-0.7^+0.6 (syst)_-0.5^+0.8 (theo) and 1.9σ. Additionally, an unfolded differential cross section as a function of Higgs boson p_T for the gluon fusion production mode is presented, assuming the other production modes occur at the expected rates.
Search for H →γγ produced in association with top quarks and constraints on the Yukawa coupling between the top quark and the Higgs boson using data taken at 7 TeV and 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for Higgs bosons produced in association with top quarks using the diphoton decay mode of the Higgs boson. Selection requirements are optimized separately for leptonic and fully hadronic final states from the top quark decays.  The dataset used corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.5  of proton–proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV and 20.3  at 8 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess over the background prediction is observed and upper limits are set on the tt̅H production cross section. The observed exclusion upper limit at 95% confidence level is 6.7 times the predicted Standard Model cross section value. In addition, limits are set on the strength of the Yukawa coupling between the top quark and the Higgs boson, taking into account the dependence of the tt̅H and tH cross sections as well as the H →γγ branching fraction on the Yukawa coupling. Lower and upper limits at 95% confidence level are set at -1.3 and +8.0 times the Yukawa coupling strength in the Standard Model.
Search for the neutral Higgs boson at LEP.
Search for the Higgs boson in the H → WW → lν jj decay channel at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson has been performed in the H → WW → lν jj channel using 4.7 fb^-1 of pp collision data recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. Higgs boson candidates produced in association with zero, one or two jets are included in the analysis to maximize the acceptance for both gluon fusion and weak boson fusion Higgs boson production processes. No significant excess of events is observed over the expected background and limits on the Higgs boson production cross section are derived for a Higgs boson mass in the range 300 GeV < m_H < 600 GeV. The best sensitivity is reached for m_H = 400 GeV, where the observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper bound on the cross section for H → WW produced in association with zero or one jet is 2.2 pb (1.9 pb), corresponding to 1.9 (1.6) times the Standard Model prediction. In the Higgs boson plus two jets channel, which is more sensitive to the weak boson fusion process, the observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper bound on the cross section for H → WW production with m_H = 400 GeV is 0.7 pb (0.6 pb), corresponding to 7.9 (6.5) times the Standard Model prediction.
Search for long-lived, weakly interacting particles that decay to displaced hadronic jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the decay of neutral, weakly interacting, long-lived particles using data collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. This analysis uses the full dataset recorded in 2012: 20.3 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV. The search employs techniques for reconstructing decay vertices of long-lived particles decaying to jets in the inner tracking detector and muon spectrometer. Signal events require at least two reconstructed vertices. No significant excess of events over the expected background is found, and limits as a function of proper lifetime are reported for the decay of the Higgs boson and other scalar bosons to long-lived particles and for Hidden Valley Z^' and Stealth SUSY benchmark models. The first search results for displaced decays in Z^' and Stealth SUSY models are presented. The upper bounds of the excluded proper lifetimes are the most stringent to date.
Searches for neutral Higgs bosons in e^+e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies from 192 to 202 GeV. Searches for neutral Higgs bosons are performed with the 237 pb^-1 of data collected in 1999 by the ALEPH detector at LEP, for centre-of-mass energies between 191.6 and 201.6 GeV. These searches apply to Higgs bosons within the context of the Standard Model and its minimal supersymmetric extension (MSSM) as well as to invisibly decaying Higgs bosons. No evidence of a signal is seen. A lower limit on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson of 107.7 GeV/c^2 at 95% confidence level is set. In the MSSM, lower limits of 91.2 and 91.6 GeV/c^2 are derived for the masses of the neutral Higgs bosons h and A, respectively. For a Higgs boson decaying invisibly and produced with the Standard Model cross section, masses below 106.4 GeV/c^2 are excluded.
Limits on Higgs boson masses from combining the data of the four LEP experiments at √(s)≤ 183 GeV.
Search for rare decays of Z and Higgs bosons to J/ψ and a photon in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is presented for decays of Z and Higgs bosons to a J/ψ meson and a photon, with the subsequent decay of the J/ψ to μ^+μ^-. The analysis uses data from proton-proton collisions with an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 at √(s) = 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. The observed limit on the Z → J/ψγ decay branching fraction, assuming that the J/ψ meson is produced unpolarized, is 1.4 × 10^-6 at 95% confidence level, which corresponds to a rate higher than expected in the standard model by a factor of 15. For extreme-polarization scenarios, the observed limit changes from -13.6 to +8.6% with respect to the unpolarized scenario. The observed upper limit on the branching fraction for H → J/ψγ where the J/ψ meson is assumed to be transversely polarized is 7.6 × 10^-4, a factor of 260 larger than the standard model prediction. The results for the Higgs boson are combined with previous data from proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV to produce an observed upper limit on the branching fraction for H → J/ψγ that is a factor of 220 larger than the standard model value.
Measurements of the Higgs boson production and decay rates and coupling strengths using pp collision data at √(s)=7 and 8 TeV in the ATLAS experiment. Combined analyses of the Higgs boson production and decay rates as well as its coupling strengths to vector bosons and fermions are presented. The combinations include the results of the analyses of the H→γγ,  ZZ^*,  WW^*,  Zγ,  bb̅, ττ and μμ decay modes, and the constraints on the associated production with a pair of top quarks and on the off-shell coupling strengths of the Higgs boson. The results are based on the LHC proton–proton collision datasets, with integrated luminosities of up to 4.7 fb^-1 at √(s)=7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 at √(s)=8 TeV, recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2011 and 2012. Combining all production modes and decay channels, the measured signal yield, normalised to the Standard Model expectation, is 1.18^+0.15_-0.14. The data provide unequivocal confirmation of the gluon fusion production of the Higgs boson, strong evidence of vector-boson fusion production and support Standard Model assumptions of production in association with vector bosons or a pair of top quarks. The observed Higgs boson production and decay rates are interpreted in a leading-order coupling framework, exploring a wide range of benchmark coupling models both with and without assumptions on the Higgs boson width and on the Standard Model particle content in loop processes. Generic Higgs boson coupling models that allow measurement of coupling strengths to μ, τ leptons, b, t quarks and W, Z bosons, or ratios of these coupling strengths, are presented. The observed data are found to be compatible with the Standard Model expectations for a Higgs boson at a mass of 125.36 GeV for all models considered.
Search for heavy resonances decaying into WW in the eνμν final state in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for neutral heavy resonances is performed in the WW→ eνμν decay channel using pp collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1, collected at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No evidence of such heavy resonances is found. In the search for production via the quark–antiquark annihilation or gluon–gluon fusion process, upper limits on σ_X × B(X → WW) as a function of the resonance mass are obtained in the mass range between 200 GeV and up to 5 TeV for various benchmark models: a Higgs-like scalar in different width scenarios, a two-Higgs-doublet model, a heavy vector triplet model, and a warped extra dimensions model. In the vector-boson fusion process, constraints are also obtained on these resonances, as well as on a Higgs boson in the Georgi–Machacek model and a heavy tensor particle coupling only to gauge bosons.
Search for Invisibly Decaying Higgs Bosons with Large Decay Width Using the OPAL Detector at LEP. This paper describes a topological search for an invisibly decaying Higgs boson,H, produced via the Bjorken process (e+e- -> HZ). The analysis is based on data recorded using the OPAL detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies from 183 to 209 GeV corresponding to a total integrated luminosity of 629pb-1. In the analysis only hadronic decays of the Z boson are considered. A scan over Higgs boson masses from 1 to 120 GeV and decay widths from 1 to 3000 GeV revealed no indication for a signal in the data. From a likelihood ratio of expected signal and Standard Model background we determine upper limits on cross-section times branching ratio to an invisible final state. For moderate Higgs boson decay widths, these range from about 0.07pb Mh = 60GeV) to 0.57pb (Mh = 114GeV). For decay widths above 200GeV the upper limits are of the order of 0.15pb. The results can be interpreted in general scenarios predicting a large invisible decay width of the Higgs boson. As an example we interpret the results in the so-called stealthy Higgs scenario. The limits from this analysis exclude a large part of the parameter range of this scenario experimentally accessible at LEP2.
Search for heavy resonances decaying into a vector boson and a Higgs boson in final states with charged leptons, neutrinos and b quarks at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for heavy resonances, decaying into the standard model vector bosons and the standard model Higgs boson, is presented. The final states considered contain a b quark-antiquark pair from the decay of the Higgs boson, along with electrons and muons and missing transverse momentum, due to undetected neutrinos, from the decay of the vector bosons. The mass spectra are used to search for a localized excess consistent with a resonant particle. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected in 2016 by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The data are found to be consistent with background expectations. Exclusion limits are set in the context of spin-0 two Higgs doublet models, some of which include the presence of dark matter. In the spin-1 heavy vector triplet framework, mass-degenerate W' and Z' resonances with dominant couplings to the standard model gauge bosons are excluded below a mass of 2.9 TeV at 95% confidence level.
Combination of searches for Higgs boson pair production in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. This Letter describes a search for Higgs boson pair production using the combined results from four final states: bbγγ, bbττ, bbbb, and bbVV, where V represents a W or Z boson. The search is performed using data collected in 2016 by the CMS experiment from LHC proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Limits are set on the Higgs boson pair production cross section. A 95% confidence level observed (expected) upper limit on the nonresonant production cross section is set at 22.2 (12.8) times the standard model value. A search for narrow resonances decaying to Higgs boson pairs is also performed in the mass range 250-3000 GeV. No evidence for a signal is observed, and upper limits are set on the resonance production cross section.
Observation of an Excess in the Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson at ALEPH. A search has been performed for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the data sample collected with the ALEPH detector at LEP, at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. An excess of 3 σ beyond the background expectation is found, consistent with the production of the Higgs boson with a mass near 114 GeV=c^2 . Much of this excess is seen in the four-jet analyses, where three high purity events are selected.
A search for the neutral Higgs boson at LEP.
Combined measurements of Higgs boson production and decay using up to 80 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s)= 13 TeV  collected with the ATLAS experiment. Combined measurements of Higgs boson production cross sections and branching fractions are presented. The combination is based on the analyses of the Higgs boson decay modes H →γγ, ZZ^∗, WW^∗, ττ, bb̅, μμ, searches for decays into invisible final states, and on measurements of off-shell Higgs boson production. Up to 79.8 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data collected at √(s)= 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector are used. Results are presented for the gluon-gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion processes, and for associated production with vector bosons or top-quarks. The global signal strength is determined to be μ = 1.11^+0.09_-0.08. The combined measurement yields an observed (expected) significance for the vector-boson fusion production process of 6.5σ (5.3σ). Measurements in kinematic regions defined within the simplified template cross section framework are also shown. The results are interpreted in terms of modifiers applied to the Standard Model couplings of the Higgs boson to other particles, and are used to set exclusion limits on parameters in two-Higgs-doublet models and in the simplified Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model. No significant deviations from Standard Model predictions are observed.
Search for diphoton resonances in the mass range from 150 to 850 GeV in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. Results are presented of a search for heavy particles decaying into two photons. The analysis is based on a 19.7 fb^-1 sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s )= 8 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC. The diphoton mass spectrum from 150 to 850 GeV is used to search for an excess of events over the background. The search is extended to new resonances with natural widths of up to 10% of the mass value. No evidence for new particle production is observed and limits at 95% confidence level on the production cross section times branching fraction to diphotons are determined. These limits are interpreted in terms of two-Higgs-doublet model parameters.
Search for electroweak production of a vector-like quark decaying to a top quark and a Higgs boson using boosted topologies in fully hadronic final states. A search is performed for electroweak production of a vector-like top quark partner T of charge 2/3 in association with a standard model top or bottom quark, using 2.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s)= 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC. The search targets T quarks decaying to a top quark and a Higgs boson in fully hadronic final states. For a T quark with mass above 1 TeV the daughter top quark and Higgs boson are highly Lorentz-boosted and can each appear as a single hadronic jet. Jet substructure and b tagging techniques are used to identify the top quark and Higgs boson jets, and to suppress the standard model backgrounds. An excess of events is searched for in the T quark candidate mass distribution in the data, which is found to be consistent with the expected backgrounds. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the product of the single T quark production cross sections and the branching fraction ℬ(T→ t  H ), and these vary between 0.31 and 0.93 pb for T quark masses in the range 1000-1800 GeV. This is the first search for single electroweak production of a vector-like T quark in fully hadronic final states.
Study of the spin and parity of the Higgs boson in diboson decays with the ATLAS detector. Studies of the spin, parity and tensor couplings of the Higgs boson in the H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ , H→ WW^* → eνμν and H→γγ decay processes at the LHC are presented. The investigations are based on 25 fb^-1 of pp collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at √( s) = 7 TeV and √( s )= 8 TeV. The Standard Model (SM) Higgs boson hypothesis, corresponding to the quantum numbers J ^P=0^+, is tested against several alternative spin scenarios, including non-SM spin-0 and spin-2 models with universal and non-universal couplings to fermions and vector bosons. All tested alternative models are excluded in favour of the SM Higgs boson hypothesis at more than 99.9% confidence level. Using the H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ and H→ WW^* → eνμν decays, the tensor structure of the HVV interaction in the spin-0 hypothesis is also investigated. The observed distributions of variables sensitive to the non-SM tensor couplings are compatible with the SM predictions and constraints on the non-SM couplings are derived.
Search for nonresonant Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅bb̅ final state at √(s) = 13 TeV. Results of a search for nonresonant production of Higgs boson pairs, with each Higgs boson decaying to a bb̅ pair, are presented. This search uses data from proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, collected by the CMS detector at the LHC. No signal is observed, and a 95% confidence level upper limit of 847 fb is set on the cross section for standard model nonresonant Higgs boson pair production times the squared branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay to a bb̅ pair. The same signature is studied, and upper limits are set, in the context of models of physics beyond the standard model that predict modified couplings of the Higgs boson.
Search for supersymmetry using Higgs boson to diphoton decays at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for supersymmetry (SUSY) is presented where at least one Higgs boson is produced and decays to two photons in the decay chains of pair-produced SUSY particles. Two complementary analysis strategies are pursued: one focused on strong SUSY production and the other focused on electroweak SUSY production. The presence of charged leptons, additional Higgs boson candidates, and various kinematic variables are used to categorize events into search regions that are sensitive to different SUSY scenarios. The results are based on data from proton-proton collisions at the Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 77.5 fb^-1. No statistically significant excess of events is observed relative to the standard model expectations. We exclude bottom squark pair production for bottom squark masses below 530 GeV and a lightest SUSY particle mass of 1 GeV; wino-like chargino-neutralino production for chargino and neutralino masses below 235 GeV with a gravitino mass of 1 GeV; and higgsino-like chargino-neutralino production in the case where the neutralino decays exclusively to a Higgs boson and a gravitino for neutralino masses below 290 GeV.
Precise Determination of the Z Resonance Parameters at LEP : Zedometry. This final analysis of hadronic and leptonic cross-sections and of leptonic forward-backward asymmetries in e+e- collisions with the OPAL detector makes use of the full LEP1 data sample comprising 161 pb^-1 of integrated luminosity and 4.5 x 10^6 selected Z decays. An interpretation of the data in terms of contributions from pure Z exchange and from Z-gamma interference allows the parameters of the Z resonance to be determined in a model-independent way. Our results are in good agreement with lepton universality and consistent with the vector and axial-vector couplings predicted in the Standard Model. A fit to the complete dataset yields the fundamental Z resonance parameters: mZ = 91.1852 +- 0.0030 GeV, GZ = 2.4948 +- 0.0041 GeV, s0h = 41.501 +- 0.055 nb, Rl = 20.823 +- 0.044, and Afb0l = 0.0145 +- 0.0017. Transforming these parameters gives a measurement of the ratio between the decay width into invisible particles and the width to a single species of charged lepton, Ginv/Gl = 5.942 +- 0.027. Attributing the entire invisible width to neutrino decays and assuming the Standard Model couplings for neutrinos, this translates into a measurement of the effective number of light neutrino species, N_nu = 2.984 +- 0.013. Interpreting the data within the context of the Standard Model allows the mass of the top quark, mt = 162 +29-16 GeV, to be determined through its influence on radiative corrections. Alternatively, utilising the direct external measurement of mt as an additional constraint leads to a measurement of the strong coupling constant and the mass of the Higgs boson: alfa_s(mZ) = 0.127 +- 0.005 and mH = 390 +750-280 GeV.
A search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons in Z^0 decays.
Search for charged Higgs bosons produced in association with a top quark and decaying via H^±→τν using pp collision data recorded at √(s) = 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector. Charged Higgs bosons produced in association with a single top quark and decaying via H^±→τν are searched for with the ATLAS experiment at the LHC, using proton–proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 3.2 fb^-1. The final state is characterised by the presence of a hadronic τ decay and missing transverse momentum, as well as a hadronically decaying top quark, resulting in the absence of high-transverse-momentum electrons and muons. The data are found to be consistent with the expected background from Standard Model processes. A statistical analysis leads to 95% confidence-level upper limits on the production cross section times branching fraction, σ(pp → [b]t H^±) ×(H^±→τν), between 1.9 pb and 15 fb, for charged Higgs boson masses ranging from 200 to 2000 GeV. The exclusion limits for this search surpass those obtained with the proton–proton collision data recorded at √(s) = 8 TeV.
Search for a light charged Higgs boson in the H^±→cs channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is conducted for a low-mass charged Higgs boson produced in a top quark decay and subsequently decaying into a charm and a strange quark. The data sample was recorded in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV by the CMS experiment at the LHC and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search is performed in the process of top quark pair production, where one top quark decays to a bottom quark and a charged Higgs boson, and the other to a bottom quark and a W boson. With the W boson decaying to a charged lepton (electron or muon) and a neutrino, the final state comprises an isolated lepton, missing transverse momentum, and at least four jets, of which two are tagged as b jets. To enhance the search sensitivity, one of the jets originating from the charged Higgs boson is required to satisfy a charm tagging selection. No significant excess beyond standard model predictions is found in the dijet invariant mass distribution. An upper limit in the range 1.68-0.25% is set on the branching fraction of the top quark decay to the charged Higgs boson and bottom quark for a charged Higgs boson mass between 80 and 160 GeV.
Search for Higgs boson decays into two new low-mass spin-0 particles in  the 4b channel with the ATLAS detector using pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV. This paper describes a search for beyond the Standard Model decays of the Higgs boson into a pair of new spin-0 particles subsequently decaying into b-quark pairs, H → aa → (bb̅)(bb̅), using proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider at center-of-mass energy √(s)=13 TeV. This search focuses on the regime where the decay products are collimated and in the range 15 ≤ m_a ≤ 30 GeV and is complementary to a previous search in the same final state targeting the regime where the decay products are well separated and in the range 20 ≤ m_a ≤ 60 GeV. A novel strategy for the identification of the a → bb̅ decays is deployed to enhance the efficiency for topologies with small separation angles. The search is performed with 36 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity collected in 2015 and 2016 and sets upper limits on the production cross-section of H → aa → (bb̅)(bb̅), where the Higgs boson is produced in association with a Z boson.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the γγ WW^* channel using pp collision data recorded at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Searches for non-resonant and resonant Higgs boson pair production are performed in the γγ WW^* channel with the final state of γγℓν jj using 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant deviation from the Standard Model prediction is observed. A 95% confidence-level observed upper limit of 7.7 pb is set on the cross section for non-resonant production, while the expected limit is 5.4 pb. A search for a narrow-width resonance X decaying to a pair of Standard Model Higgs bosons HH is performed with the same set of data, and the observed upper limits on σ(pp → X) × B(X → HH) range between 40.0 pb and 6.1 pb for masses of the resonance between 260 GeV and 500 GeV, while the expected limits range between 17.6 pb and 4.4 pb. When deriving the limits above, the Standard Model branching ratios of the H →γγ and H → WW^* are assumed.
Search for dark photons in decays of Higgs bosons produced in association with Z bosons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for a Higgs boson that is produced in association with a Z boson and that decays to an undetected particle together with an isolated photon. The search is performed by the CMS Collaboration at the Large Hadron Collider using a data set corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1 recorded at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. No significant excess of events above the expectation from the standard model background is found. The results are interpreted in the context of a theoretical model in which the undetected particle is a massless dark photon. An upper limit is set on the product of the cross section for associated Higgs and Z boson production and the branching fraction for such a Higgs boson decay, as a function of the Higgs boson mass. For a mass of 125 GeV, assuming the standard model production cross section, this corresponds to an observed (expected) upper limit on this branching fraction of 4.6 (3.6)% at 95% confidence level. These are the first limits on Higgs boson decays to final states that include an undetected massless dark photon.
W Boson Polarisation at LEP2. Elements of the spin density matrix for W bosons in e+e- -> W+W- -> qqln events are measured from data recorded by the OPAL detector at LEP. This information is used calculate polarised differential cross-sections and to search for CP-violating effects. Results are presented for W bosons produced in e+e- collisions with centre-of-mass energies between 183 GeV and 209 GeV. The average fraction of W bosons that are longitudinally polarised is found to be (23.9 +- 2.1 +- 1.1)% compared to a Standard Model prediction of (23.9 +- 0.1)%. All results are consistent with CP conservation.
Search for top quark decays via Higgs-boson-mediated flavor-changing neutral currents in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV. A search is performed for Higgs-boson-mediated flavor-changing neutral currents in the decays of top quarks. The search is based on proton-proton collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. Events in which a top quark pair is produced with one top quark decaying into a charm or up quark and a Higgs boson (H), and the other top quark decaying into a bottom quark and a W boson are selected. The Higgs boson in these events is assumed to subsequently decay into either dibosons or difermions. No significant excess is observed above the expected standard model background, and an upper limit at the 95% confidence level is set on the branching fraction ℬ ( t → Hc ) of 0.40% and ℬ( t → Hu) of 0.55%, where the expected upper limits are 0.43% and 0.40%, respectively. These results correspond to upper limits on the square of the flavor-changing Higgs boson Yukawa couplings |λ_ tc^H|^2 < 6.9× 10^-3 and |λ_ tu^H|^2 < 9.8 × 10^-3.
Search for new phenomena in events with three or more charged leptons in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A generic search for anomalous production of events with at least three charged leptons is presented.  The data sample consists of pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV collected in 2012 by the ATLAS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider, and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1.  Events are required to have at least three selected lepton candidates, at least two of which must be electrons or muons, while the third may be a hadronically decaying tau.  Selected events are categorized based on their lepton flavour content and signal regions are constructed using several kinematic variables of interest.  No significant deviations from Standard Model predictions are observed.  Model-independent upper limits on contributions from beyond the Standard Model phenomena are provided for each signal region, along with prescription to re-interpret the limits for any model.  Constraints are also placed on models predicting doubly charged Higgs bosons and excited leptons.  For doubly charged Higgs bosons decaying to eτ or μτ, lower limits on the mass are set at 400 GeV at 95% confidence level.  For excited leptons, constraints are provided as functions of both the mass of the excited state and the compositeness scale Λ, with the strongest mass constraints arising in regions where the mass equals Λ.  In such scenarios, lower mass limits are set at 2.0 TeV for excited electrons and muons, 1.8 TeV for excited taus, and 1.6 TeV for every excited-neutrino flavour.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson in the H → ZZ → 2l 2ν channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for the standard model Higgs boson in the H to ZZ to 2l 2nu decay channel, where l = e or mu, in pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV is presented. The data were collected at the LHC, with the CMS detector, and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.6 inverse femtobarns. No significant excess is observed above the background expectation, and upper limits are set on the Higgs boson production cross section. The presence of the standard model Higgs boson with a mass in the 270-440 GeV range is excluded at 95% confidence level.
Search for a Charged Higgs Boson Produced in the Vector-boson Fusion Mode with Decay H^±→ W^± Z using pp Collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS Experiment. A search for a charged Higgs boson, H^±, decaying to a W^± boson and a Z boson is presented. The search is based on 20.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The H^± boson is assumed to be produced via vector-boson fusion and the decays W^±→ qq̅^̅'̅ and Z→ e^+e^-/μ^+μ^- are considered. The search is performed in a range of charged Higgs boson masses from 200 to 1000 GeV. No evidence for the production of an H^± boson is observed. Upper limits of 31–1020 fb at 95% CL are placed on the cross section for vector-boson fusion production of an H^± boson times its branching fraction to W^± Z. The limits are compared with predictions from the Georgi-Machacek Higgs Triplet Model.
Search for Higgs Bosons and Other Massive States decaying into two Photons in e^+e^- Collisions at 189 GeV. A search is described for the generic process e+e- to X Y, where X is a neutral heavy scalar boson decaying into a pair of photons, and Y is a neutral heavy boson (scalar or vector) decaying into a fermion pair. The search is motivated mainly by the cases where either X, or both X and Y, are Higgs bosons. In particular, we investigate the case where X is the Standard Model Higgs boson and Y the Z0 boson. Other models with enhanced Higgs boson decay couplings to photon pairs are also considered. The present search combines the data set collected by the OPAL collaboration at 189 GeV collider energy, having an integrated luminosity of 182.6pb-1, with data samples collected at lower energies. The search results have been used to put 95% confidence level bounds, as functions of the mass of X, on the product of the cross-section and the relevant branching ratios, both in a model independent manner and for the particular models considered.
Limits on a light Higgs boson in e+e- collisions at LEP.
A search for Higgs boson pair production in the b  b ττ final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. Results are presented from a search for production of Higgs boson pairs (HH) where one boson decays to a pair of b quarks and the other to a τ lepton pair. This work is based on proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at √(s) = 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 18.3 fb^-1. Resonant and non-resonant modes of HH production have been probed and no significant excess relative to the background-only hypotheses has been found in either mode. Upper limits on cross sections of the two HH production modes have been set. The results have been combined with previously published searches at √(s) = 8 TeV, in decay modes to two photons and two b quarks, as well as to four b quarks, which also show no evidence for a signal. Limits from the combination have been set on resonant HH production by an unknown particle X in the mass range m_X = 300 GeV to m_X = 1000 GeV. For resonant production of spin 0 (spin 2) particles, the observed 95% CL upper limit is 1.13 pb (1.09 pb) at m_X = 300 GeV and to 21 fb (18 fb) at m_X = 1000 GeV. For non-resonant HH production, a limit of 43 times the rate predicted by the standard model has been set.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with a vector boson and decaying to a b-quark pair with the ATLAS detector. This Letter presents the results of a direct search with the ATLAS detector at the LHC for a Standard Model Higgs boson of mass 110 ≤ m_H ≤ 130 GeV produced in association with a W or Z boson and decaying to bb̅. Three decay channels are considered: ZH → l^+ l^- bb̅, WH → lν bb̅, and ZH →νν̅bb̅, where l corresponds to an electron or a muon. No evidence for Higgs boson production is observed in a dataset of 7 TeV pp collisions corresponding to 4.7/fb of integrated luminosity collected by ATLAS in 2011. Exclusion limits on Higgs boson production, at the 95% confidence level, of 2.5 to 5.5 times the Standard Model cross section are obtained in the mass range 110 - 130 GeV. The expected exclusion limits range between 2.5 and 4.9 for the same mass interval.
Measurement of R_b and B_r(b → lν X) at LEP Using Double-Tag Methods. We present a combined measurement of = Γ(Z → bb) / Γ(Z→) and the semileptonic branching ratio of b quarks in Z decays, , using double-tag methods. Two analyses are performed on one million hadronic Z decays collected in 1994 and 1995. The first analysis exploits the capabilities of the silicon microvertex detector. The tagging of b-events is based on the large impact parameter of tracks from weak b-decays with respect to the e^+e^- collision point. In the second analysis, a high-p_t lepton tag is used to enhance the b-component in the sample and its momentum spectrum is used to constrain the model dependent uncertainties in the semileptonic b-decay. The analyses are combined in order to provide precise determinations of and :
Search for the neutral Higgs boson.
Simultaneous measurements of the tt̅, W^+W^-, and Z/γ^*→ττ production cross-sections in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Simultaneous measurements of the tt̅, W^+W^-, and Z/γ^*→ττ production cross-sections using an integrated luminosity of 4.6 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC are presented. Events are selected with two high transverse momentum leptons consisting of an oppositely charged electron and muon pair. The three processes are separated using the distributions of the missing transverse momentum of events with zero and greater than zero jet multiplicities. Measurements of the fiducial cross-section are presented along with results that quantify for the first time the underlying correlations in the predicted and measured cross-sections due to proton parton distribution functions. These results indicate that the correlated NLO predictions for tt̅ and Z/γ^*→ττ significantly underestimate the data, while those at NNLO generally describe the data well. The full cross-sections are measured to be σ(tt̅) = 181.2 ± 2.8^+9.7_-9.5± 3.3 ± 3.3 pb, σ(W^+W^-) = 53.3 ± 2.7^+7.3_-8.0± 1.0 ± 0.5 pb, and σ(Z/γ^*→ττ) = 1174 ± 24^+72_-87± 21 ± 9 pb, where the cited uncertainties are due to statistics, systematic effects, luminosity and the LHC beam energy measurement, respectively.
Search for an exotic decay of the Higgs boson to a pair of light pseudoscalars in the final state with two b quarks and two τ leptons in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for an exotic decay of the Higgs boson to a pair of light pseudoscalar bosons is performed for the first time in the final state with two b quarks and two τ leptons. The search is motivated in the context of models of physics beyond the standard model (SM), such as two Higgs doublet models extended with a complex scalar singlet (2HDM+S), which include the next-to-minimal supersymmetric SM (NMSSM). The results are based on a data set of proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, accumulated by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. Masses of the pseudoscalar boson between 15 and 60 GeV are probed, and no excess of events above the SM expectation is observed. Upper limits between 3 and 12% are set on the branching fraction ℬ(h → aa → 2τ2b) assuming the SM production of the Higgs boson. Upper limits are also set on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson to two light pseudoscalar bosons in different 2HDM+S scenarios. Assuming the SM production cross section for the Higgs boson, the upper limit on this quantity is as low as 20% for a mass of the pseudoscalar of 40 GeV in the NMSSM.
Searches for neutral Higgs bosons in e^+e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies from 192 to 202 GeV. Searches for neutral Higgs bosons are performed with the 237 pb^-1 of data collected in 1999 by the ALEPH detector at LEP, for centre-of-mass energies between 191.6 and 201.6 GeV. These searches apply to Higgs bosons within the context of the Standard Model and its minimal supersymmetric extension (MSSM) as well as to invisibly decaying Higgs bosons. No evidence of a signal is seen. A lower limit on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson of 107.7 GeV/c^2 at 95% confidence level is set. In the MSSM, lower limits of 91.2 and 91.6 GeV/c^2 are derived for the masses of the neutral Higgs bosons h and A, respectively. For a Higgs boson decaying invisibly and produced with the Standard Model cross section, masses below 106.4 GeV/c^2 are excluded.
Mass limit for the lightest neutralino. Indirect limits on the mass of the lightest neutralino are derived from the results of searches for charginos, neutralinos, and sleptons performed with data taken by the ALEPH Collaboration at centre-of-mass energies near the Z peak and at 130 and 136 GeV. Within the context of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model and when M_ν̃≥ 200 GeV/c 2, the bound M_χ>12.8 GeV/c 2 at the 95% confidence level applies for any tanβ. The impact of lighter sneutrinos is presented in the framework of SUSY grand unified theories; a massless neutralino is allowed only for a narrow range of tanβ, μ, and the scalar mass parameter m_0. Finally, by including Higgs mass constraints and requiring that radiative electroweak symmetry breaking occur, more stringent bounds on M_χ as a function of tanβ are derived.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies between 130 and 183 GeV. A search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons is performed with the L3 detector at LEP using data collected at centre-of-mass energies from , corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 88.3 . The Higgs decays into a charm and a strange quark or into a tau lepton and its associated neutrino are considered. The observed candidates are consistent with the expectations from Standard Model background processes. A lower limit of 57.5 on the charged Higgs mass is derived at 95% CL, independent of the decay branching ratio Br(H^±τν).
Search for heavy resonances decaying into a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in final states with leptons and b-jets in 36 fb^-1 of √(s) = 13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search is conducted for new resonances decaying into a W or Z boson and a 125 GeV Higgs boson in the νν̅bb̅, ℓ^±νbb̅, and ℓ^+ℓ^-bb̅ final states, where ℓ ^±= e^± or μ^±, in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. The data used correspond to a total integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider during the 2015 and 2016 data-taking periods. The search is conducted by examining the reconstructed invariant or transverse mass distributions of Wh and Zh candidates for evidence of a localised excess in the mass range of 220 GeV up to 5 TeV. No significant excess is observed and the results are interpreted in terms of constraints on the production cross-section times branching fraction of heavy W^' and Z^' resonances in heavy-vector-triplet models and the CP-odd scalar boson A in two-Higgs-doublet models. Upper limits are placed at the 95 % confidence level and range between 9.0× 10^-4 pb and 8.1× 10^-1 pb depending on the model and mass of the resonance.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the decay channel H → ZZ^(*)→ 4l with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the decay channel H->ZZ(*)->l+l-l+l-, where l=e,mu, is presented. Proton-proton collision data at sqrt(s)=7 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector and corresponding to an average integrated luminosity of 2.1 fb-1 are compared to the Standard Model expectations. Upper limits on the production cross section of a Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass between 110 and 600 GeV are derived. The observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper limit on the production cross section for a Higgs boson with a mass of 194 GeV, the region with the best expected sensitivity for this search, is 0.99 (1.01) times the Standard Model prediction. The Standard Model Higgs boson is excluded at 95% confidence level in the mass ranges 191-197, 199-200 and 214-224 GeV.
Test of CP Invariance in vector-boson fusion production of the Higgs boson using the Optimal Observable method in the ditau decay channel with the ATLAS detector. A test of CP invariance in Higgs boson production via vector-boson fusion using the method of the Optimal Observable is presented. The analysis exploits the decay mode of the Higgs boson into a pair of τ leptons and is based on 20.3 fb^-1 of proton—proton collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. Contributions from CP-violating interactions between the Higgs boson and electroweak gauge bosons are described in an effective field theory framework, in which the strength of CP violation is governed by a single parameter d̃. The mean values and distributions of CP-odd observables agree with the expectation in the Standard Model and show no sign of CP violation. The CP-mixing parameter d̃ is constrained to the interval [-0.11,0.05] at 68% confidence level, consistent with the Standard Model expectation of d̃=0.
Search for scalar resonances decaying into μ^+μ^- in events with and without b-tagged jets produced in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a narrow scalar resonance decaying into opposite-sign muon pair produced in events with and without b-tagged jets is presented in this paper. The A search for a narrow scalar resonance decaying into an opposite-sign muon pair produced in events with and without b-tagged jets is presented in this paper. The search uses 36.1 fb^-1 of √(s)=13 TeV proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. No significant excess of events above the expected Standard Model background is observed in the investigated mass range of 0.2 to 1.0 TeV. The observed upper limits at 95% confidence level on the cross section times branching ratio for b-quark associated production and gluon-gluon fusion are between 1.9 and 41 fb and 1.6 and 44 fb respectively, which is consistent with expectations.
Evidence for the associated production of the Higgs boson and a top quark pair with the ATLAS detector. A search for the associated production of the Higgs boson with a top quark pair (tt̅ H) is reported. The search is performed in multilepton final states using a dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider. Higgs boson decays to WW^*, ττ, and ZZ^* are targeted. Seven final states, categorized by the number and flavor of charged-lepton candidates, are examined for the presence of the Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass of 125 GeV and a pair of top quarks. An excess of events over the expected background from Standard Model processes is found with an observed significance of 4.1 standard deviations, compared to an expectation of 2.8 standard deviations. The best fit for the tt̅ H production cross section is σ(tt̅ H) = 790^+230_-210 fb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction of 507^+35_-50 fb. The combination of this result with other tt̅ H searches from the ATLAS experiment using the Higgs boson decay modes to bb̅, γγ and ZZ^* → 4ℓ, has an observed significance of 4.2 standard deviations, compared to an expectation of 3.8 standard deviations. This provides evidence for the tt̅ H production mode.
Identification of boosted Higgs bosons decaying into b-quark pairs with the ATLAS detector at 13 TeV. This paper describes a study of techniques for identifying Higgs bosons at high transverse momenta decaying into bottom-quark pairs, H → bb̅, for proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy √(s)=13 TeV. These decays are reconstructed from calorimeter jets found with the anti-k_t R = 1.0 jet algorithm. To tag Higgs bosons, a combination of requirements is used: b-tagging of R = 0.2 track-jets matched to the large-R calorimeter jet, and requirements on the jet mass and other jet substructure variables. The Higgs boson tagging efficiency and corresponding multijet and hadronic top-quark background rejections are evaluated using Monte Carlo simulation. Several benchmark tagging selections are defined for different signal efficiency targets. The modelling of the relevant input distributions used to tag Higgs bosons is studied in 36 fb^-1 of data collected in 2015 and 2016 using g→ bb̅ and Z(→ bb̅)γ event selections in data. Both processes are found to be well modelled within the statistical and systematic uncertainties.
Search for new phenomena in final states with an energetic jet and large missing transverse momentum in pp collisions at √(s)=8TeV with the ATLAS detector. Results of a search for new phenomena in final states with an energetic jet and large missing transverse momentum are reported. The search uses 20.3 fb^-1 of √(s)=8 TeV data collected in 2012 with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Events are required to have at least one jet with p_T > 120 GeV and no leptons. Nine signal regions are considered with increasing missing transverse momentum requirements between E_T^miss >150 GeV and E_T^miss > 700 GeV. Good agreement is observed between the number of events in data and Standard Model expectations. The results are translated into exclusion limits on models with large extra spatial dimensions, pair production of weakly interacting dark matter candidates, and production of very light gravitinos in a gauge-mediated supersymmetric model. In addition, limits on the production of an invisibly decaying Higgs-like boson leading to similar topologies in the final state are presented.
Search for Neutral Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model Higgs Bosons Decaying to Tau Pairs in pp Collisions  at √(s)=7 TeV. A search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons in pp collisions at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV is presented. The results are based on a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36 inverse picobarns recorded by the CMS experiment. The search uses decays of the Higgs bosons to tau pairs. No excess is observed in the tau-pair invariant-mass spectrum. The resulting upper limits on the Higgs boson production cross section times branching fraction to tau pairs, as a function of the pseudoscalar Higgs boson mass, yield stringent new bounds in the MSSM parameter space.
Search for two Higgs bosons in final states containing two photons and two bottom quarks in proton-proton collisions at 8 TeV. A search is presented for the production of two Higgs bosons in final states containing two photons and two bottom quarks. Both resonant and nonresonant hypotheses are investigated. The analyzed data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV collected with the CMS detector. Good agreement is observed between data and predictions of the standard model (SM). Upper limits are set at 95% confidence level on the production cross section of new particles and compared to the prediction for the existence of a warped extra dimension. When the decay to two Higgs bosons is kinematically allowed, assuming a mass scale Λ_R = 1 TeV for the model, the data exclude a radion scalar at masses below 980 GeV. The first Kaluza–Klein excitation mode of the graviton in Randall–Sundrum models is excluded for masses between 325 and 450 GeV. Limits set on nonresonant production constrain the parameter space for anomalous Higgs boson couplings.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons decaying into four taus at LEP2. A search for the production and non-standard decay of a Higgs boson, h, into four taus through intermediate pseudoscalars, a, is conducted on 683 pb-1 of data collected by the ALEPH experiment at centre-of-mass energies from 183 to 209 GeV. No excess of events above background is observed, and exclusion limits are placed on the combined production cross section times branching ratio, ξ^2 = σ(e+e- –> Zh)/σ_SM(e+e- –> Zh) x B(h –> aa)x B(a –> τ^+τ^-)^2. For mh < 107 GeV/c2 and 4 < ma < 10 GeV/c2, ξ^2 > 1 is excluded at the 95% confidence level.
Search for a Higgs Boson Decaying to Weak Boson Pairs at LEP. A Higgs particle produced in association with a Z boson and decaying into weak boson pairs is searched for in 336.4 1/pb of data collected by the L3 experiment at LEP at centre-of-mass energies from 200 to 209 GeV. Limits on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay into two weak bosons as a function of the Higgs mass are derived. These results are combined with the L3 search for a Higgs boson decaying to photon pairs. A Higgs produced with a Standard Model e+e- –> Zh cross section and decaying only into electroweak boson pairs is excluded at 95% CL for a mass below 107 GeV.
Searches for electroweak neutralino and chargino production in channels with Higgs, Z, and W bosons in pp collisions at 8 TeV. Searches for supersymmetry (SUSY) are presented based on the electroweak pair production of neutralinos and charginos, leading to decay channels with Higgs, Z, and W bosons and undetected lightest SUSY particles (LSPs). The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of about 19.5 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected in 2012 with the CMS detector at the LHC. The main emphasis is neutralino pair production in which each neutralino decays either to a Higgs boson (h) and an LSP or to a Z boson and an LSP, leading to hh, hZ, and ZZ states states with missing transverse energy E_ T^ miss. A second aspect is chargino-neutralino pair production, leading to hW states with E_ T^ miss. The decays of a Higgs boson to a bottom-quark pair, to a photon pair, and to final states with leptons are considered in conjunction with hadronic and leptonic decay modes of the Z and W bosons. No evidence is found for supersymmetric particles, and 95% confidence level upper limits are evaluated for the respective pair production cross sections and for neutralino and chargino mass values.
Evidence for the associated production of the Higgs boson and a top quark pair with the ATLAS detector. A search for the associated production of the Higgs boson with a top quark pair (tt̅ H) is reported. The search is performed in multilepton final states using a dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider. Higgs boson decays to WW^*, ττ, and ZZ^* are targeted. Seven final states, categorized by the number and flavor of charged-lepton candidates, are examined for the presence of the Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass of 125 GeV and a pair of top quarks. An excess of events over the expected background from Standard Model processes is found with an observed significance of 4.1 standard deviations, compared to an expectation of 2.8 standard deviations. The best fit for the tt̅ H production cross section is σ(tt̅ H) = 790^+230_-210 fb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction of 507^+35_-50 fb. The combination of this result with other tt̅ H searches from the ATLAS experiment using the Higgs boson decay modes to bb̅, γγ and ZZ^* → 4ℓ, has an observed significance of 4.2 standard deviations, compared to an expectation of 3.8 standard deviations. This provides evidence for the tt̅ H production mode.
Search for invisible decays of the Higgs boson produced in association with a hadronically decaying vector boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson decays to invisible particles is performed using 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The process considered is Higgs boson production in association with a vector boson (V = W or Z) that decays hadronically, resulting in events with two or more jets and large missing transverse momentum. No excess of candidates is observed in the data over the background expectation. The results are used to constrain VH production followed by H decaying to invisible particles for the Higgs mass range 115<m_H<300 GeV. The 95% confidence-level observed upper limit on σ_VH×BR(H→inv.) varies from 1.6 pb at 115 GeV to 0.13 pb at 300 GeV. Assuming Standard Model production and including the gg→ H contribution as signal, the results also lead to an observed upper limit of 78% at 95% confidence level on the branching ratio of Higgs bosons decays to invisible particles at a mass of 125 GeV.
A search for pair production of new light bosons decaying into muons. A search for the pair production of new light bosons, each decaying into a pair of muons, is performed with the CMS experiment at the LHC, using a dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.7 fb^-1 collected in proton-proton collisions at center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV. No excess is observed in the data relative to standard model background expectation and a model independent upper limit on the product of the cross section, branching fraction, and acceptance is derived. The results are compared with two benchmark models, the first one in the context of the next-to-minimal supersymmetric standard model, and the second one in scenarios containing a hidden sector, including those predicting a non-negligible light boson lifetime.
Search for dark matter produced in association with a leptonically decaying Z boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for dark matter particles is performed using events with a Z boson candidate and large missing transverse momentum. The analysis is based on proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016-2018, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. The search uses the decay channels Z→ee and Z→μμ. No significant excess of events is observed over the background expected from the standard model. Limits are set on dark matter particle production in the context of simplified models with vector, axial-vector, scalar, and pseudoscalar mediators, as well as on a two-Higgs-doublet model with an additional pseudoscalar mediator. In addition, limits are provided for spin-dependent and spin-independent scattering cross sections and are compared to those from direct-detection experiments. The results are also interpreted in the context of models of invisible Higgs boson decays, unparticles, and large extra dimensions.
Search for single production of vector-like quarks decaying to a b quark and a Higgs boson. A search is presented for single production of heavy vector-like quarks (B) that decay to a Higgs boson and a b quark, with the Higgs boson decaying to a highly boosted bb pair reconstructed as a single collimated jet. The analysis is based on data collected by the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The data are consistent with background expectations, and upper limits at 95% confidence level on the product of the B quark cross section and the branching fraction are obtained in the range 1.28-0.07 pb, for a narrow B quark with a mass between 700 and 1800 GeV. The production of B quarks with widths of 10, 20 and 30% of the resonance mass is also considered, and the sensitivities obtained are similar to those achieved in the narrow width case. This is the first search at the CERN LHC for the single production of a B quark through its fully hadronic decay channel, and the first study considering finite resonance widths of the B quark.
Precision Luminosity for Z^0 Lineshape Measurements with a Silicon-Tungsten Calorimeter. The measurement of small-angle Bhabha scattering is used to determine the luminosity at the OPAL interaction point for the LEP I data recorded between 1993 and 1995. The measurement is based on the OPAL Silicon-Tungsten Luminometer which is composed of two calorimeters encircling the LEP beam pipe, on opposite sides of the interaction point. The luminometer detects electrons from small-angle Bhabha scattering at angles between 25 and 58mrad. At LEP center-of-mass energies around the Z0, about half of all Bhabha electrons entering the detector fall within a 79nb fiducial acceptance region. The electromagnetic showers generated in the stack of 1 radiation length tungsten absorber plates are sampled by 608 silicon detectors with 38,912 radial pads of 2.5mm width.The fine segmentation of the detector, combined with the precise knowledge of its physical dimensions, allows the trajectories of incoming 45GeV electrons or photons to be determined with a total systematic error of less than 7microns. We have quantified all significant sources of systematic experimental error in the luminosity determination by direct physical measurement. All measured properites of the luminosity event sample are found to be in agreement with current theoretical expectations. The total systematic measurement uncertainty is 3.4x10^-4, significantly below the theoretical error of 5.4x10^-4 currently assigned to the QED calculation of the Bhabha acceptance, and contributes negligibly to the total uncertainty in the OPAL measurement of Gammainvisible/Gammal+l-, a quantity of basic physical interest which depends crucially on the luminosity measurement.
Search for a fermiophobic Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. Combined results are reported from searches for a fermiophobic Higgs boson in the γγ, WW, and ZZ decay modes in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. The explored Higgs boson mass range is 110-300 GeV. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.9-5.1 inverse femtobarns. A fermiophobic Higgs boson is excluded at 95% confidence level in the mass range 110-194 GeV, and at 99% confidence level in the mass ranges 110-124.5 GeV, 127-147.5 GeV, and 155-180 GeV.
Search for rare decays of Z and Higgs bosons to J/ψ and a photon in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is presented for decays of Z and Higgs bosons to a J/ψ meson and a photon, with the subsequent decay of the J/ψ to μ^+μ^-. The analysis uses data from proton-proton collisions with an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 at √(s) = 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. The observed limit on the Z → J/ψγ decay branching fraction, assuming that the J/ψ meson is produced unpolarized, is 1.4 × 10^-6 at 95% confidence level, which corresponds to a rate higher than expected in the standard model by a factor of 15. For extreme-polarization scenarios, the observed limit changes from -13.6 to +8.6% with respect to the unpolarized scenario. The observed upper limit on the branching fraction for H → J/ψγ where the J/ψ meson is assumed to be transversely polarized is 7.6 × 10^-4, a factor of 260 larger than the standard model prediction. The results for the Higgs boson are combined with previous data from proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV to produce an observed upper limit on the branching fraction for H → J/ψγ that is a factor of 220 larger than the standard model value.
Search for charged Higgs bosons using the OPAL detector at LEP.
Measurement of the Higgs boson mass in the H→ ZZ^* → 4ℓ and H →γγ channels with √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions using the ATLAS detector. The mass of the Higgs boson is measured in the H→ ZZ^* → 4ℓ and in the H→γγ decay channels with 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data from the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016. The measured value in the H→ ZZ^* → 4ℓ channel is m_H^ZZ^* = 124.79 ± 0.37 GeV, while the measured value in the H→γγ channel is m_H^γγ = 124.93 ± 0.40 GeV. Combining these results with the ATLAS measurement based on 7 TeV and 8 TeV proton-proton collision data yields a Higgs boson mass of m_H=124.97 ± 0.24 GeV.
Search for a high-mass Higgs boson decaying to a W boson pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a high-mass Higgs boson H is performed in the H→ WW→ℓνℓν and H→ WW→ℓνqq decay channels using pp collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 collected at √(s)= 8 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No evidence of a high-mass Higgs boson is found. Limits on σ_H×BR(H→ WW) as a function of the Higgs boson mass m_H are determined in three different scenarios: one in which the heavy Higgs boson has a narrow width compared to the experimental resolution, one for a width increasing with the boson mass and modeled by the complex-pole scheme following the same behavior as in the Standard Model, and one for intermediate widths. The upper range of the search is m_H=1500 GeV for the narrow-width scenario and m_H=1000 GeV for the other two scenarios. The lower edge of the search range is 200–300 GeV and depends on the analysis channel and search scenario. For each signal interpretation, individual and combined limits from the two WW decay channels are presented. At m_H = 1500 GeV, the highest-mass point tested, σ_H×BR(H→ WW) for a narrow-width Higgs boson is constrained to be less than 21 fb and 6.0 fb at 95% CL for the gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion production modes, respectively.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) = 130-172 GeV. A search is described to detect charged Higgs bosons via the process e^+e^- -> H^+H^-, using data collected by the OPAL detector at center-of-mass energies of 130-172 GeV with a total integrated luminosity of 25 pb^-1. The decay channels are assumed to be H^+ -> qq'(bar) and H^+ -> τ^+ ν_τ. No evidence for charged Higgs boson production is observed. The lower limit for its mass is determined to be 52 GeV at 95% confidence level, independent of the H^+ -> τ^+ ν_τ branching ratio.
Precision electroweak measurements on the Z resonance. We report on the final electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the Z resonance by the experiments operating at the electron-positron colliders SLC and LEP. The data consist of 17 million Z decays accumulated by the ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL experiments at LEP, and 600 thousand Z decays by the SLD experiment using a polarised beam at SLC. The measurements include cross-sections, forward-backward asymmetries and polarised asymmetries. The mass and width of the Z boson, and , and its couplings to fermions, for example the ρ parameter and the effective electroweak mixing angle, are precisely measured. The number of light neutrino species is determined to be 2.9840+/-0.0082. The results are compared to the predictions of the Standard Model. Electroweak radiative corrections beyond the running of the QED and QCD coupling constants are observed with a significance of five standard deviations, and in agreement with the Standard Model. Of the many Z-pole measurements, the forward-backward asymmetry in b-quark production shows the largest difference with respect to its Standard Model expectation, at the level of 2.8 standard deviations. Through radiative corrections evaluated in the framework of the Standard Model, the masses of the top quark and the W Boson are predicted. These indirect constraints are compared to the direct measurements, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model. Using in addition the direct measurements of and , the mass of the as yet unobserved Standard Model Higgs boson is predicted.
Search for neutral resonances decaying into a Z boson and a pair of b jets or τ leptons. A search is performed for a new resonance decaying into a lighter resonance and a Z boson. Two channels are studied, targeting the decay of the lighter resonance into either a pair of oppositely charged τ leptons or a b b̅ pair. The Z boson is identified via its decays to electrons or muons. The search exploits data collected by the CMS experiment at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.8 fb^-1. No significant deviations are observed from the standard model expectation and limits are set on production cross sections and parameters of two-Higgs-doublet models.
Search for pair production of Higgs bosons in the bb̅bb̅ final state  using proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs-boson pair production in the bb̅bb̅ final state  is carried out with 3.2 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data collected at  √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The data are consistent with the estimated background and are used to set upper limits on the production cross section of Higgs-boson pairs times  branching ratio to bb̅bb̅ for both nonresonant and resonant production. In the case of resonant production of Kaluza–Klein gravitons within the Randall–Sundrum model, upper limits in the 24 to 91 fb range are  obtained for masses between 600 and 3000 GeV, at the 95% confidence level. The production cross section times branching ratio for nonresonant Higgs-boson pairs  is also constrained to be less than 1.22 pb, at the 95% confidence level.
Measurement of the hadronic activity in events with a Z and two jets and extraction of the cross section for the electroweak production of a Z with two jets in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. The first measurement of the electroweak production cross section of a Z boson with two jets (Zjj) in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV is presented, based on a data sample recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC with an integrated luminosity of 5 inverse femtobarns. The cross section is measured for the lljj (l = e, μ) final state in the kinematic region m_ll 50 GeV, m_jj 120 GeV, transverse momenta p_T^j 25 GeV and pseudorapidity abs(η^j)  4.0. The measurement, combining the muon and electron channels, yields σ = 154 +/- 24 (stat.) +/- 46 (exp. syst.) +/- 27 (th. syst.) +/- 3 (lum.) fb, in agreement with the theoretical cross section. The hadronic activity, in the rapidity interval between the jets, is also measured. These results establish an important foundation for the more general study of vector boson fusion processes, of relevance for Higgs boson searches and for measurements of electroweak gauge couplings and vector boson scattering.
Search for dark matter produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to a pair of bottom quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for dark matter produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to a pair of bottom quarks is performed in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. The analyzed data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The signal is characterized by a large missing transverse momentum recoiling against a bottom quark-antiquark system that has a large Lorentz boost. The number of events observed in the data is consistent with the standard model background prediction. Results are interpreted in terms of limits both on parameters of the type-2 two-Higgs doublet model extended by an additional light pseudoscalar boson a (2HDM+a) and on parameters of a baryonic Z' simplified model. For the baryonic Z' model, the presented results constitute the most stringent constraints to date. The 2HDM+a model is tested experimentally for the first time.
Search for direct production of electroweakinos in final states with one  lepton, missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson decaying into two b-jets in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The results of a search for electroweakino pair production pp →χ̃^±_1 χ̃^0_2 in which the chargino (χ̃^±_1) decays into a W boson and the lightest neutralino (χ̃^0_1), while the heavier neutralino (χ̃^0_2) decays into the Standard Model 125 GeV Higgs boson and a second χ̃^0_1 are presented. The signal selection requires a pair of b-tagged jets consistent with those from a Higgs boson decay, and either an electron or a muon from the W boson decay, together with missing transverse momentum from the corresponding neutrino and the stable neutralinos. The analysis is based on data corresponding to 139 fb^-1 of √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions provided by the Large Hadron Collider and recorded by the ATLAS detector. No statistically significant evidence of an excess of events above the Standard Model expectation is found. Limits are set on the direct production of the electroweakinos in simplified models, assuming pure wino cross-sections. Masses of χ̃^±_1/χ̃^0_2 up to 740 GeV are excluded at 95% confidence level for a massless χ̃^0_1.
Expected performance of the ATLAS experiment. A detailed study is presented of the expected performance of the ATLAS detector. The reconstruction of tracks, leptons, photons, missing energy and jets is investigated, together with the performance of b-tagging and the trigger. The physics potential for a variety of interesting physics processes, within the Standard Model and beyond, is examined. The study comprises a series of notes based on simulations of the detector and physics processes, with particular emphasis given to the data expected from the first years of operation of the LHC at CERN.
Search for Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model Higgs bosons H/A and for a Z^' boson in the ττ final state produced in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS Detector. A search for neutral Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM) and for a heavy neutral Z^' boson is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 3.2 fb^-1 from proton–proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC.  The heavy resonance is assumed to decay to a τ^+ τ^- pair with at least one τ lepton decaying to final states with hadrons and a neutrino. The search is performed in the mass range of 0.2–1.2 TeV for the MSSM neutral Higgs bosons and 0.5–2.5 TeV for the heavy neutral Z^' boson.  The data are in good agreement with the background predicted by the Standard Model and hence results are given as upper limits on the production cross section times branching fraction of the boson decay to τ^+τ^- as a function of the boson mass.  The results are interpreted in  MSSM and Z^' benchmark scenarios.  The most stringent MSSM parameter space constraints for the Higgs boson search exclude at 95% confidence level (CL) tanβ > 7.6 for m_A = 200 GeV in the m_h^mod+ MSSM scenario.   This analysis extends the MSSM limits from previous searches for the mass range m_A > 500 GeV. For the Sequential Standard Model, a Z^'_SSM mass up to 1.90 TeV is excluded at 95% CL and masses up to 1.82–2.17 TeV are excluded for a Z^'_SFM of the Strong Flavour Model.
Search for a non-minimal Higgs boson produced in the reaction e^+e^-→ hZ.
Final results of the searches for neutral Higgs bosons in e^+e^- collisions at √(s) up to 209 GeV. The final results of the ALEPH search for the Standard Model Higgs boson at LEP, with data collected in the year 2000 at centre-of-mass energies up to 209,GeV, are presented. The changes with respect to the preceding publication are described and a complete study of systematic effects is reported. The findings of this final analysis confirm the preliminary results published in November 2000 shortly after the closing down of the LEP collider: a significant excess of events is observed, consistent with the production of a 115, Gcs Standard Model Higgs boson.% The final results of the searches for the neutral Higgs bosons of the MSSM are also reported, in terms of limits on mh, mA and anb.% Limits are also set on mh in the case of invisible decays.
Measurements of WH and ZH production in the H → bb̅ decay channel in pp collisions at 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Measurements of the Standard Model Higgs boson decaying into a bb̅ pair and produced in association with a W or Z boson decaying into leptons, using proton-proton collision data collected between 2015 and 2018 by the ATLAS detector, are presented. The measurements use collisions produced by the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) =13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1.  The production of a Higgs boson in association with a W or Z boson is established with observed (expected) significances of 4.0 (4.1) and 5.3 (5.1) standard deviations, respectively.  Cross-sections of associated production of a Higgs boson decaying into bottom quark pairs with an electroweak gauge boson, W or Z, decaying into leptons are measured as a function of the gauge boson transverse momentum in kinematic fiducial volumes.  The cross-section measurements are all consistent with the Standard Model expectations, and the total uncertainties vary from 30% in the high gauge boson transverse momentum regions to 85% in the low regions. Limits are subsequently set on the parameters of an effective Lagrangian sensitive to modifications of the WH and ZH processes as well as the Higgs boson decay into bb̅.
Search for a light charged Higgs boson decaying to a W boson and a CP-odd Higgs boson in final states with eμμ or μμμ in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for a light charged Higgs boson (H^+) decaying to a W boson and a CP-odd Higgs boson (A) in final states with eμμ or μμμ is performed using data from pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, recorded by the CMS detector at the LHC and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. In this search, it is assumed that the H^+ boson is produced in decays of top quarks, and the A boson decays to two oppositely charged muons. The presence of signals for H^+ boson masses between 100 and 160 GeV and A boson masses between 15 and 75 GeV is investigated. No evidence for the production of the H^+ boson is found. Assuming branching fractions ℬ(H^+→W^+A)= 1 and ℬ(A→μ^+μ^-)=3×10^-4, upper limits at 95% confidence level on the branching fraction of the top quark, ℬ(t→bH^+), of 0.63 to 2.9% are obtained, depending on the masses of the H^+ and A bosons. These are the first limits on ℬ(t→bH^+) in the decay mode of the H^+ boson: H^+→W^+A→W^+μ^+μ^-.
Search for exotic decays of a Higgs boson into undetectable particles and one or more photons. A search is presented for exotic decays of a Higgs boson into undetectable particles and one or two isolated photons in pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of up to 19.4 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. Higgs bosons produced in gluon-gluon fusion and in association with a Z boson are investigated, using models in which the Higgs boson decays into a gravitino and a neutralino or a pair of neutralinos, followed by the decay of the neutralino to a gravitino and a photon. The selected events are consistent with the background-only hypothesis, and limits are placed on the product of cross sections and branching fractions. Assuming a standard model Higgs boson production cross-section, a 95% confidence level upper limit is set on the branching fraction of a 125 GeV Higgs boson decaying into undetectable particles and one or two isolated photons as a function of the neutralino mass. For neutralino masses from 1 to 120 GeV an upper limit in the range of 7 to 13% is obtained. Further results are given as a function of the neutralino lifetime, and also for a range of Higgs boson masses.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying to W^+ W^- in the fully leptonic final state in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying to W+W- in pp collisions at sqrt(s) = 7 TeV is reported. The data are collected at the LHC with the CMS detector, and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.6 inverse femtobarns. The W+W- candidates are selected in events with two charged leptons and large missing transverse energy. No significant excess of events above the standard model background expectations is observed, and upper limits on the Higgs boson production relative to the standard model Higgs expectation are derived. The standard model Higgs boson is excluded in the mass range 129-270 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Searches for the standard Higgs boson.
Search for invisible Higgs boson decays in vector boson fusion at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. We report a search for Higgs bosons that are produced via vector boson fusion and subsequently decay into invisible particles. The experimental signature is two energetic jets with 𝒪(1) TeV invariant mass and 𝒪(100) GeV missing transverse momentum. The analysis uses 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collision data at 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. In the signal region the 2252 observed events are consistent with the background estimation. Assuming a 125 GeV particle with Standard Model cross sections, the upper limit on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay into invisible particles is 0.37 at 95% confidence level where 0.28 was expected. This limit is interpreted in Higgs portal models to set limits on the WIMP-nucleon scattering cross section. We also consider invisible decays of additional scalar bosons with masses up to 3 TeV for which the upper limits on the cross section times branching fraction are in the range of 0.3-2.0 pb.
Constraints on non-Standard Model Higgs boson interactions in an effective Lagrangian using differential cross sections measured in the H →γγ decay channel at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The strength and tensor structure of the Higgs boson's interactions are investigated within an effective field theory framework, which allows new CP-even and CP-odd interactions that can lead to changes in the kinematic properties of the Higgs boson and associated jet spectra. The parameters of the effective field theory are probed using a fit to five differential cross sections previously measured by the ATLAS experiment in the H →γγ decay channel with an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 at √(s)=8 TeV. In order to perform a simultaneous fit to the five distributions, the statistical correlations between them are determined by re-analysing the H →γγ candidate events in the proton-proton collision data. No significant deviations from the Standard Model are observed and limits on the effective field theory parameters are derived. The statistical correlations are made publicly available to allow for future analysis of theories with non-Standard Model interactions.
Search for a fermiophobic Higgs boson in the diphoton decay channel with the ATLAS detector. A search for a fermiophobic Higgs boson with diphoton events produced in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of sqrt(s) = 7 TeV is performed using data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 fb-1 collected by the ATLAS experiment. A specic benchmark model is considered where all the fermion couplings to the Higgs boson are set to zero and the bosonic couplings are kept at the Standard Model values. The largest excess with respect to the background-only hypothesis is found at 125.5 GeV, with a significance of 1.6 (3.0) standard deviations when taking (not taking) the look elsewhere effect into account. The data exclude this benchmark model in the ranges 110.0 - 118.0 GeV and 119.5 - 121.0 GeV at 95% confidence level. The expected exclusion limits are in the range 110.0 - 123.5 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Higgs Candidates in e^+ e^- Interactions at √(s)= 206.6 GeV. In a search for the Standard Model Higgs boson, carried out on 212.5 pb^-1 of data collected by the L3 detector at the highest LEP centre-of-mass energies, including 116.5 pb^-1 above √(s) = 206 GeV, an excess of candidates for the process e^+ e^- → Z^*→ HZ is found for Higgs masses near 114.5 GeV. We present an analysis of our data and the characteristics of our strongest candidates.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the two photon decay channel with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the two photon decay channel is reported, using 1.08 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector. No significant excess is observed in the investigated mass range of 110-150 GeV. Upper limits on the cross-section times branching ratio of between 2.0 and 5.8 times the Standard Model prediction are derived for this mass range.
A New Boson with a Mass of 125 GeV Observed with the CMS Experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. The Higgs boson was postulated nearly five decades ago within the framework of the standard model of particle physics and has been the subject of numerous searches at accelerators around the world. Its discovery would verify the existence of a complex scalar field thought to give mass to three of the carriers of the electroweak force—the W+, W–, and Z0 bosons—as well as to the fundamental quarks and leptons. The CMS Collaboration has observed, with a statistical significance of five standard deviations, a new particle produced in proton-proton collisions at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. The evidence is strongest in the diphoton and four-lepton (electrons and/or muons) final states, which provide the best mass resolution in the CMS detector. The probability of the observed signal being due to a random fluctuation of the background is about 1 in 3 × 106. The new particle is a boson with spin not equal to 1 and has a mass of about 125 giga–electron volts. Although its measured properties are, within the uncertainties of the present data, consistent with those expected of the Higgs boson, more data are needed to elucidate the precise nature of the new particle.
Constraints on off-shell Higgs boson production and the Higgs boson total width in ZZ→ 4ℓ and ZZ→ 2ℓ2ν final states with the ATLAS detector. A measurement of off-shell Higgs boson production in the ZZ→4ℓ and ZZ→2ℓ2ν decay channels, where ℓ stands for either an electron or a muon, is performed using data from proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=13 TeV. The data were collected by the ATLAS experiment in 2015 and 2016 at the Large Hadron Collider, and they correspond to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. An observed (expected) upper limit on the off-shell Higgs signal strength, defined as the event yield normalised to the Standard Model prediction, of 3.8 (3.4) is obtained at 95% confidence level (CL). Assuming the ratio of the Higgs boson couplings to the Standard Model predictions is independent of the momentum transfer of the Higgs production mechanism considered in the analysis, a combination with the on-shell signal-strength measurements yields an observed (expected) 95% CL upper limit on the Higgs boson total width of 14.4 (15.2) MeV.
Search for the dimuon decay of the Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the dimuon decay of the Higgs boson was performed using data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess is observed above the expected background. The observed (expected) upper limit on the cross-section times branching ratio is 3.0 (3.1) times the Standard Model prediction at the 95% confidence level for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV. When combined with the pp collision data at √(s)=7 TeV and √(s)=8 TeV, the observed (expected) upper limit is 2.8 (2.9) times the Standard Model prediction.
Search for Scalar Diphoton Resonances in the Mass Range 65-600 GeV with the ATLAS Detector in pp Collision Data at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for scalar particles decaying via narrow resonances into two photons in the mass range 65-600 GeV is performed using 20.3 fb^-1 of √(s) = 8 TeV pp collision data collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The recently discovered Higgs boson is treated as a background. No significant evidence for an additional signal is observed. The results are presented as limits at the 95 % confidence level on the production cross-section of a scalar boson times branching ratio into two photons, in a fiducial volume where the reconstruction efficiency is approximately independent of the event topology. The upper limits set extend over a considerably wider mass range than previous searches.
A search for doubly-charged Higgs production in Z^0 decays.
Observation of electroweak production of same-sign W boson pairs in the two jet and two same-sign lepton final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. The first observation of electroweak production of same-sign W boson pairs in proton-proton collisions is reported. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV with the CMS detector at the LHC. Events are selected by requiring exactly two leptons (electrons or muons) of the same charge, moderate missing transverse momentum, and two jets with a large rapidity separation and a large dijet mass. The observed significance of the signal is 5.5 standard deviations, where a significance of 5.7 standard deviations is expected based on the standard model. The ratio of measured event yields to that expected from the standard model at leading-order is 0.90 ± 0.22. A cross section measurement in a fiducial region is reported. Bounds are given on the structure of quartic vector boson interactions in the framework of dimension-eight effective field theory operators and on the production of doubly charged Higgs bosons.
Search for Higgs and Z Boson Decays to ϕ γ with the ATLAS Detector. A search for the decays of the Higgs and Z bosons to a ϕ meson and a photon is performed with a pp collision data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 2.7 fb^-1 collected at √(s)=13TeV with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. No significant excess of events is observed above the background, and 95% confidence level upper limits on the branching fractions of the Higgs and Z boson decays to ϕ γ of 1.4×10^-3 and 8.3×10^-6, respectively, are obtained.
Energy calibration and resolution of the CMS electromagnetic calorimeter in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. The energy calibration and resolution of the electromagnetic calorimeter (ECAL) of the CMS detector have been determined using proton-proton collision data from LHC operation in 2010 and 2011 at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=7 TeV with integrated luminosities of about 5 inverse femtobarns. Crucial aspects of detector operation, such as the environmental stability, alignment, and synchronization, are presented. The in-situ calibration procedures are discussed in detail and include the maintenance of the calibration in the challenging radiation environment inside the CMS detector. The energy resolution for electrons from Z-boson decays is better than 2% in the central region of the ECAL barrel (for pseudorapidity abs(eta) < 0.8) and is 2-5% elsewhere. The derived energy resolution for photons from 125 GeV Higgs boson decays varies across the barrel from 1.1% to 2.6% and from 2.2% to 5% in the entraps. The calibration of the absolute energy is determined from Z → e^+e^- decays to a precision of 0.4% in the barrel and 0.8% in the endcaps.
A search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying to charm quarks. A direct search for the standard model Higgs boson, H, produced in association with a vector boson, V (W or Z), and decaying to a charm quark pair is presented. The search uses a data set of proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016, at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The search is carried out in mutually exclusive channels targeting specific decays of the vector bosons: W→ℓν, Z→ℓℓ, and Z→νν, where ℓ is an electron or a muon. To fully exploit the topology of the H boson decay, two strategies are followed. In the first one, targeting lower vector boson transverse momentum, the H boson candidate is reconstructed via two resolved jets arising from the two charm quarks from the H boson decay. A second strategy identifies the case where the two charm quark jets from the H boson decay merge to form a single jet, which generally only occurs when the vector boson has higher transverse momentum. Both strategies make use of novel methods for charm jet identification, while jet substructure techniques are also exploited to suppress the background in the merged-jet topology. The two analyses are combined to yield a 95% confidence level observed (expected) upper limit on the cross section σ(VH)ℬ(H→cc̅) of 4.5 (2.4^+1.0_-0.7) pb, corresponding to 70 (37) times the standard model prediction.
Combination of searches for Higgs boson pairs in pp collisions at  √(s) =13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This letter presents a combination of searches for Higgs boson pair production using up to 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The combination is performed using six analyses searching for Higgs boson pairs decaying into the bbbb, bbWW, bbττ, WWWW, bbγγ and WWγγ final states. Results are presented for non-resonant and resonant Higgs boson pair production modes. The combined observed limit at 95% confidence level on the non-resonant Higgs boson pair production cross-section is 6.9 times the predicted Standard Model cross-section. Limits are also set on the ratio (κ_λ) of the Higgs boson self-coupling to its Standard Model value. This ratio is constrained at 95% confidence level to -5.0 < κ_λ <12.0. In addition, limits are set on the production of narrow scalar resonances and spin-2 Kaluza-Klein Randall-Sundrum gravitons. Exclusion regions are also provided in the parameter space of the habemus Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model and the Electroweak Singlet Model.
Search for the neutral Higgs boson from Z0 decay in the Higgs mass range between 11 and 24 GeV.
Search for a Higgs boson in the mass range from 145 to 1000 GeV decaying to a pair of W or Z bosons. A search for a heavy Higgs boson in the H → WW and H → ZZ decay channels is reported. The search is based upon proton-proton collision data samples corresponding to an integrated luminosity of up to 5.1 fb^-1 at √(s) = 7 TeV and up to 19.7 fb^-1 at √(s) = 8 TeV, recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC. Several final states of the H → WW and H → ZZ decays are analyzed. The combined upper limit at the 95% confidence level on the product of the cross section and branching fraction exclude a Higgs boson with standard model-like couplings and decays in the m_H range from 145 to 1000 GeV. We also interpret the results in the context of an electroweak singlet extension of the standard model.
Search for single production of vector-like quarks decaying to a b quark and a Higgs boson. A search is presented for single production of heavy vector-like quarks (B) that decay to a Higgs boson and a b quark, with the Higgs boson decaying to a highly boosted bb pair reconstructed as a single collimated jet. The analysis is based on data collected by the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The data are consistent with background expectations, and upper limits at 95% confidence level on the product of the B quark cross section and the branching fraction are obtained in the range 1.28-0.07 pb, for a narrow B quark with a mass between 700 and 1800 GeV. The production of B quarks with widths of 10, 20 and 30% of the resonance mass is also considered, and the sensitivities obtained are similar to those achieved in the narrow width case. This is the first search at the CERN LHC for the single production of a B quark through its fully hadronic decay channel, and the first study considering finite resonance widths of the B quark.
Measurements of four-lepton production in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The four-lepton (4ℓ, ℓ = e, μ) production cross section is measured in the mass range from 80 to 1000 GeV using 20.3fb^-1 of data in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The 4ℓ events are produced in the decays of resonant Z and Higgs bosons and the non-resonant ZZ continuum originating from qq̅, gg, and qg initial states. A total of 476 signal candidate events are observed with a background expectation of 26.2 ± 3.6 events, enabling the measurement of the integrated cross section and the differential cross section as a function of the invariant mass and transverse momentum of the four-lepton system. In the mass range above 180 GeV, assuming the theoretical constraint on the qq̅ production cross section calculated with perturbative NNLO QCD and NLO electroweak corrections, the signal strength of the gluon-fusion component relative to its leading-order prediction is determined to be μ_gg=2.4 ± 1.0 ( stat.) ± 0.5 ( syst.)± 0.8 ( theory).
Search for supersymmetry in events with photons, bottom quarks, and missing transverse momentum in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search has been performed for the experimental signature of an isolated photon with high transverse momentum, at least one jet identified as originating from a bottom quark, and high missing transverse momentum. Such a final state may originate from supersymmetric models with gauge-mediated supersymmetry breaking in events in which one of a pair of higgsino-like neutralinos decays into a photon and a gravitino while the other decays into a Higgs boson and a gravitino. The search is performed using the full dataset of 7 TeV proton-proton collisions recorded with the ATLAS detector at the LHC in 2011, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb-1. A total of 7 candidate events are observed while 7.5 pm 2.2 events are expected from the Standard Model background. The results of the search are interpreted in the context of general gauge mediation to exclude certain regions of a benchmark plane for higgsino-like neutralino production.
Search for a massive resonance decaying into a Higgs boson and a W or Z boson in hadronic final states in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for a massive resonance decaying into a standard-model-like Higgs boson (H) and a W or Z boson is reported. The analysis is performed on a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1, collected in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV with the CMS detector at the LHC. Signal events, in which the decay products of Higgs, W, or Z bosons at high Lorentz boost are contained within single reconstructed jets, are identified using jet substructure techniques, including the tagging of b hadrons. This is the first search for heavy resonances decaying into HW or HZ resulting in an all-jet final state, as well as the first application of jet substructure techniques to identify H → W W^* → 4q decays at high Lorentz boost. No significant signal is observed and limits are set at 95% confidence level on the production cross section of W' and Z' in a model with mass-degenerate charged and neutral spin-1 resonances. Resonance masses are excluded for W' in the interval [1.0, 1.6] TeV, for Z' in the intervals [1.0, 1.1] and [1.3,1.5] TeV, and for mass-degenerate W' and Z' in the interval [1.0, 1.7] TeV.
Search for light bosons in decays of the 125 GeV Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search is presented for decays beyond the standard model of the 125 GeV Higgs bosons to a pair of light bosons, based on models with extended scalar sectors. Light boson masses between 5 and 62.5 GeV are probed in final states containing four tau leptons, two muons and two b quarks, or two muons and two tau leptons. The results are from data in proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 inverse femtobarns, accumulated by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. No evidence for such exotic decays is found in the data. Upper limits are set on the product of the cross section and branching fraction for several signal processes. The results are also compared to predictions of two-Higgs-doublet models, including those with an additional scalar singlet.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies from 130 to 172 GeV. The data collected at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 130 to 172 GeV by ALEPH at LEP, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 27.5 pb-1, are analysed in a search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons H+-. Three analyses are employed to select the tau nu tau nu, tau nu c s and c s c s final states. No evidence for a signal is found. Mass limits are set as a function of the branching fraction BR for H+- -> tau nu. Charged Higgs bosons with masses below 52 GeV are excluded at 95% C.L. independently of BR, thus significantly improving on existing mass limits from LEP1 searches.
Search for Supersymmetric Particles in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s) up to 202 GeV and Mass Limit for the Lightest Neutralino. Searches for pair production of squarks, sleptons, charginos and neutralinos are performed with the data collected by the ALEPH detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies from 188.6 to 201.6 GeV. No evidence for any such signals is observed in a total integrated luminosity of about 410 pb**-1. The negative results of the searches are translated into exclusion domains in the space of the relevant MSSM parameters, which improve significantly on the constraints set previously. Under the assumptions of gaugino and sfermion mass unification, these results allow a 95% C.L. lower limit of 37 GeV/c**2 to be set on the mass of the lightest neutralino for any tan(beta) and sfermion mass. Additional constraints in the MSSM parameter space are derived from the negative results of ALEPH searches for Higgs bosons. The results are also interpreted in the framework of minimal supergravity.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) up to 202 GeV. The Standard Model Higgs boson is searched for in 233.2 pb-1 of data collected by the L3 detector at centre of mass energies from 192 GeV to 202 GeV. These data are consistent with the expectations of Standard Model processes and no evidence of a Higgs signal is observed. A lower limit on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson of 107.0 GeV is set at the 95% confidence level.
Searches for non-minimal Higgs bosons in Z^0 decays.
Search for Anomalous Couplings in the Higgs Sector at LEP. Anomalous couplings of the Higgs boson are searched for through the processes e^+ e^- -> H gamma, e^+ e^- -> e^+ e^- H and e^+ e^- -> HZ. The mass range 70 GeV < m_H < 190 GeV is explored using 602 pb^-1 of integrated luminosity collected with the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies sqrt(s)=189-209 GeV. The Higgs decay channels H -> ffbar, H -> gamma gamma, H -> Zγand H -> WW^(*) are considered and no evidence is found for anomalous Higgs production or decay. Limits on the anomalous couplings d, db, Delta(g1z), Delta(kappa_gamma) and xi^2 are derived as well as limits on the H -> gamma gamma and H -> Z gamma decay rates.
Search for pair production of heavy top-like quarks decaying to a high-p_T W boson and a b quark in the lepton plus jets final state at √(s)=7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for production of a heavy up-type quark (t') together with its antiparticle, assuming a significant branching ratio for subsequent decay into a W boson and a b quark. The search is based on 4.7 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV recorded in 2011 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. Data are analyzed in the lepton+jets final state, characterized by a high-transverse-momentum isolated electron or muon, large missing transverse momentum and at least three jets. The analysis strategy relies on the substantial boost of the W bosons in the t't'bar signal when mt'>=400 GeV. No significant excess of events above the Standard Model expectation is observed and the result of the search is interpreted in the context of fourth-generation and vector-like quark models. Under the assumption of a branching ratio BR(t'->Wb)=1, a fourth-generation t' quark with mass lower than 656 GeV is excluded at 95% confidence level. In addition, in light of the recent discovery of a new boson of mass  126 GeV at the LHC, upper limits are derived in the two-dimensional plane of BR(t'->Wb) versus BR(t'->Ht), where H is the Standard Model Higgs boson, for vector-like quarks of various masses.
A search for pair production of new light bosons decaying into muons in proton-proton collisions at 13 TeV. A search for new light bosons decaying into muon pairs is presented using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC. The search is model independent, only requiring the pair production of a new light boson and its subsequent decay to a pair of muons. No significant deviation from the predicted background is observed. A model independent limit is set on the product of the production cross section times branching fraction to dimuons squared times acceptance as a function of new light boson mass. This limit varies between 0.16 and 0.45 fb over a range of new light boson masses from 0.25 to 8.5 GeV. It is then interpreted in the context of the next-to-minimal supersymmetric standard model and a dark supersymmetry model that allows for nonnegligible light boson lifetimes. In both cases, there is significant improvement over previously published limits.
Study of the Mass and Spin-Parity of the Higgs Boson Candidate via Its Decays to Z Boson Pairs. A study is presented of the mass and spin-parity of the new boson recently observed at the LHC at a mass near 125 GeV. An integrated luminosity of 17.3 inverse femtobarns, collected by the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV, is used. The measured mass in the ZZ channel, where both Z bosons decay to e or μ pairs, is 126.2 ± 0.6 (stat.) ± 0.2 (syst.) GeV. The angular distributions of the lepton pairs in this channel are sensitive to the spin-parity of the boson. Under the assumption of spin 0, the present data are consistent with the pure scalar hypothesis, while disfavoring the pure pseudoscalar hypothesis.
Search for a light charged Higgs boson in the H^±→cs channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is conducted for a low-mass charged Higgs boson produced in a top quark decay and subsequently decaying into a charm and a strange quark. The data sample was recorded in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV by the CMS experiment at the LHC and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search is performed in the process of top quark pair production, where one top quark decays to a bottom quark and a charged Higgs boson, and the other to a bottom quark and a W boson. With the W boson decaying to a charged lepton (electron or muon) and a neutrino, the final state comprises an isolated lepton, missing transverse momentum, and at least four jets, of which two are tagged as b jets. To enhance the search sensitivity, one of the jets originating from the charged Higgs boson is required to satisfy a charm tagging selection. No significant excess beyond standard model predictions is found in the dijet invariant mass distribution. An upper limit in the range 1.68-0.25% is set on the branching fraction of the top quark decay to the charged Higgs boson and bottom quark for a charged Higgs boson mass between 80 and 160 GeV.
Measurements of the Higgs boson production and decay rates and constraints on its couplings from a combined ATLAS and CMS analysis of the LHC pp collision data at √(s)= 7 and 8 TeV. Combined ATLAS and CMS measurements of the Higgs boson production and decay rates, as well as constraints on its couplings to vector bosons and fermions, are presented. The combination is based on the analysis of five production processes, namely gluon fusion, vector boson fusion, and associated production with a W or a Z boson or a pair of top quarks, and of the six decay modes H → ZZ, WW, γγ, ττ, bb, and μμ. All results are reported assuming a value of 125.09 GeV for the Higgs boson mass, the result of the combined measurement by the ATLAS and CMS experiments. The analysis uses the CERN LHC proton–proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS and CMS experiments in 2011 and 2012, corresponding to integrated luminosities per experiment of approximately 5 fb^-1 at √(s)=7 TeV and 20 fb^-1 at √(s) = 8 TeV. The Higgs boson production and decay rates measured by the two experiments are combined within the context of three generic parameterisations: two based on cross sections and branching fractions, and one on ratios of coupling modifiers. Several interpretations of the measurements with more model-dependent parameterisations are also given. The combined signal yield relative to the Standard Model prediction is measured to be 1.09 ± 0.11. The combined measurements lead to observed significances for the vector boson fusion production process and for the H →ττ decay of 5.4 and 5.5 standard deviations, respectively. The data are consistent with the Standard Model predictions for all parameterisations considered.
Search for neutral higgs bosons of the minimal supersymmetric standard model in e^+e^- Interactions at √(s)= 189 GeV. A search for the lightest neutral scalar and neutral pseudoscalar Higgs bosons in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model is performed using 176.4 pb^-1 of integrated luminosity collected by L3 at a center-of-mass energy of 189 GeV. No signal is observed, and the data are consistent with the expected Standard Model background. Lower limits on the masses of the lightest neutral scalar and pseudoscalar Higgs bosons are given as a function of tanβ. Lower mass limits for tanβ > 1 are set at the 95% confidence level to be m_ h > 77.1 GeV and m_ A > 77.1 GeV.
Measurements of properties of the Higgs boson decaying to a W boson pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. Measurements of the production of the standard model Higgs boson decaying to a W boson pair are reported. The W^+W^- candidates are selected in events with an oppositely charged lepton pair, large missing transverse momentum, and various numbers of jets. To select Higgs bosons produced via vector boson fusion and associated production with a W or Z boson, events with two jets or three or four leptons are also selected. The event sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, collected in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV by the CMS detector at the LHC during 2016. Combining all channels, the observed cross section times branching fraction is 1.28 ^+0.18_-0.17 times the standard model prediction for the Higgs boson with a mass of 125.09 GeV. This is the first observation of the Higgs boson decay to W boson pairs by the CMS experiment.
Search for a heavy pseudoscalar Higgs boson decaying into a 125 GeV Higgs boson and a Z boson in final states with two tau and two light leptons at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is performed for a pseudoscalar Higgs boson, A, decaying into a 125 GeV Higgs boson h and a Z boson. The h boson is specifically targeted in its decay into a pair of tau leptons, while the Z boson decays into a pair of electrons or muons. A data sample of proton-proton collisions collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at √(s) = 13 TeV is used, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. No excess above the standard model background expectations is observed in data. A model-independent upper limit is set on the product of the gluon fusion production cross section for the A boson and the branching fraction to Zh→ℓℓττ. The observed upper limit at 95% confidence level ranges from 27 to 5 fb for A boson masses from 220 to 400 GeV, respectively. The results are used to constrain the extended Higgs sector parameters for two benchmark scenarios of the minimal supersymmetric standard model.
Search for a charged Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for a charged Higgs boson is performed with a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 ± 0.5 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. The charged Higgs boson is searched for in top quark decays for m_H^± lower then m_t - m_b, and in the direct production pp → t (b) H^± for m_H^± larger than m_t - m_b. The H^±→τ^±ν_τ and H^±→ t b decay modes in the final states τ_ h+jets, μτ_ h, ℓ+jets, and ℓℓ' (ℓ = e, μ) are considered in the search. No signal is observed and 95% confidence level upper limits are set on the charged Higgs boson production. A model-independent upper limit on the product branching fraction ℬ( t→ H^± b)  ℬ(H^±→τ^±ν_τ)= 1.2-0.15% is obtained in the mass range m_H^± = 80-160 GeV, while the upper limit on the cross section times branching fraction σ( pp → t (b) H^±)  ℬ (H^±→τ^±ν_τ)= 0.38-0.025 pb is set in the mass range m_H^+ = 180-600 GeV. Here, cross section σ( pp→ t(b)H^±) stands for the sum σ( pp→ t( b) H^+) + σ( pp→ t( b) H^-). Assuming ℬ( H^±→ t b)= 1, an upper limit on σ ( pp→ t ( b)  H^±) of 2.0-0.13 pb is set for m_H^± = 180-600 GeV. The combination of all considered decay modes and final states is used to set exclusion limits in the m_H^±-tanβ parameter space in different MSSM benchmark scenarios.
Search for Radions at LEP2. A new scalar resonance, called the radion, with couplings to fermions and bosons similar to those of the Higgs boson, is predicted in the framework of Randall-Sundrum models, proposed solutions to the hierarchy problem with one extra dimension. An important distinction between the radion and the Higgs boson is that the radion would couple directly to gluon pairs, and in particular its decay products would include a significant fraction of gluon jets. The radion had the same quantum numbers as the Standard Model (SM) Higgs boson, and therefore they can mix, with the resulting mass eigenstates having properties different from those of the SM Higgs boson. Existing searches for the Higgs boson are sensitive to the possible production and decay of radions and Higgs bosons in these models. For the first time, searches for the SM Higgs boson and flavour-independent and decay-mode independent searches for a neutral Higgs boson are used in combination to explore the parameter space of the Randall-Sundrum model. In the dataset recorded by the OPAL experiment at LEP, no evidence for radion or Higgs particle production was observed in any of those searches. The results are used to set limits on the radion and Higgs boson masses.
Search for vector-like charge 2/3 T quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for fermionic top quark partners T of charge 2/3 is presented. The search is carried out in proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 collected at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV with the CMS detector at the LHC. The T quarks are assumed to be produced strongly in pairs and can decay into tH, tZ, and bW. The search is performed in five exclusive channels: a single-lepton channel, a multilepton channel, two all-hadronic channels optimized either for the bW or the tH decay, and one channel in which the Higgs boson decays into two photons. The results are found to be compatible with the standard model expectations in all the investigated final states. A statistical combination of these results is performed and lower limits on the T quark mass are set. Depending on the branching fractions, lower mass limits between 720 and 920 GeV at 95% confidence level are found. These are among the strongest limits on vector-like T quarks obtained to date.
Search for a charged Higgs boson decaying into top and bottom quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV in events with electrons or muons. A search is presented for a charged Higgs boson heavier than the top quark, produced in association with a top quark, or with a top and a bottom quark, and decaying into a top-bottom quark-antiquark pair. The search is performed using proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Events are selected by the presence of a single isolated charged lepton (electron or muon) or an opposite-sign dilepton (electron or muon) pair, categorized according to the jet multiplicity and the number of jets identified as originating from b quarks. Multivariate analysis techniques are used to enhance the discrimination between signal and background in each category. The data are compatible with the standard model, and 95% confidence level upper limits of 9.6-0.01 pb are set on the charged Higgs boson production cross section times branching fraction to a top-bottom quark-antiquark pair, for charged Higgs boson mass hypotheses ranging from 200 GeV to 3 TeV. The upper limits are interpreted in different minimal supersymmetric extensions of the standard model.
Study of the e^+e^-→ Ze^+e^- Process at LEP. The cross section of the process e^+e^-→ Ze^+e^- is measured with 0.7 fb^-1 of data collected with the L3 detector at LEP. Decays of the Z boson into quarks and muons are considered at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 183 GeV up to 209 GeV. The measurements are found to agree with Standard Model predictions, achieving a precision of about 10% for the hadronic channel.
Search for dark matter produced in association with a single top quark in √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. This paper presents a search for dark matter in the context of a two-Higgs-doublet model together with an additional pseudoscalar mediator, a, which decays into the dark-matter particles. Processes where the pseudoscalar mediator is produced in association with a single top quark in the 2HDM+a model are explored for the first time at the LHC. Several final states which include either one or two charged leptons (electrons or muons) and a significant amount of missing transverse momentum are considered. The analysis is based on proton-proton collision data collected with the ATLAS experiment at √(s) = 13 TeV during LHC Run 2 (2015-2018), corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1. No significant excess above the Standard Model predictions is found. The results are expressed as 95 % confidence-level limits on the parameters of the signal models considered.
Search for the associated production of the Higgs boson with a top quark pair in multilepton final states with the ATLAS detector. A search for the associated production of the Higgs boson with a top quark pair is performed in multilepton final states using 20.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at √(s)=8 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider. Five final states, targeting the decays H→ WW^*, ττ, and ZZ^*, are examined for the presence of the Standard Model (SM) Higgs boson: two same-charge light leptons (e or μ) without a hadronically decaying τ lepton; three light leptons; two same-charge light leptons with a hadronically decaying τ lepton; four light leptons; and one light lepton and two hadronically decaying τ leptons. No significant excess of events is observed above the background expectation. The best fit for the tt̅ H production cross section, assuming a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, is 2.1 ^+1.4_-1.2 times the SM expectation, and the observed (expected) upper limit at the 95% confidence level is 4.7 (2.4) times the SM rate. The p-value for compatibility with the background-only hypothesis is 1.8σ; the expectation in the presence of a Standard Model signal is 0.9σ.
Search for a Higgs boson decaying into a b-quark pair and produced in association with b quarks in proton-proton collisions at 7 TeV. A search for a neutral Higgs boson decaying to a pair of b quarks, and produced in association with at least one additional b quark, is presented. Multijet final states with three jets identified as originating from b quarks, at least one of which may include a non-isolated muon, are studied. The data used in this analysis correspond to an integrated luminosity of 2.7-4.8 inverse femtobarns, collected by the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV. This search is particularly sensitive to Higgs bosons in scenarios of the Minimal Supersymmetric Model (MSSM) with large values of tanβ. No excess over the predicted background from standard model processes is observed. Stringent upper limits on cross section times branching fraction are derived and interpreted as bounds in the MSSM tanβ and m_A parameter-space. Observed 95% confidence level upper limits reach as low as tanβ ≈ 18 for M_A ≈ 100 GeV.
Search for a low-mass τ^-τ^+ resonance in association with a bottom quark in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A general search is presented for a low-mass τ^-τ^+ resonance produced in association with a bottom quark. The search is based on proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 . The data are consistent with the standard model expectation. Upper limits at 95% confidence level on the cross section times branching fraction are determined for two signal models: a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson decaying to a pair of τ leptons produced in association with bottom quarks, and a low-mass boson A decaying to a τ-lepton pair that is produced in the decay of a bottom-like quark B such that B → bA. Masses between 25 and 70 GeV are probed for the light pseudoscalar boson with upper limits ranging from 250 to 44 pb. Upper limits from 20 to 0.3 pb are set on B masses between 170 and 450 GeV for A boson masses between 20 and 70 GeV.
Search for vector-like T quarks decaying to top quarks and Higgs bosons in the all-hadronic channel using jet substructure. A search is performed for a vector-like heavy T quark that is produced in pairs and that decays to a top quark and a Higgs boson. The data analysed correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. For T quarks with large mass values the top quarks and Higgs bosons can have significant Lorentz boosts, so that their individual decay products often overlap and merge. Methods are applied to resolve the substructure of such merged jets. Upper limits on the production cross section of a T quark with mass between 500 and 1000 GeV/c^2 are derived. If the T quark decays exclusively to tH, the observed (expected) lower limit on the mass of the T quark is 745 (773) GeV/c^2 at 95% confidence level. For the first time an algorithm is used for tagging boosted Higgs bosons that is based on a combination of jet substructure information and b tagging.
Summary of the searches for squarks and gluinos using √(s) = 8 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. A summary is presented of ATLAS searches for gluinos and first- and second-generation squarks in final states containing jets and missing transverse momentum, with or without leptons or b-jets, in the √(s) = 8 TeV data set collected at the Large Hadron Collider in 2012. This paper reports the results of new interpretations and statistical combinations of previously published analyses, as well as a new analysis.  Since no significant excess of events over the Standard Model expectation is observed, the data are used to set limits in a variety of models.   In all the considered simplified models that assume R-parity conservation, the limit on the gluino mass exceeds 1150 GeV at 95% confidence level, for an LSP mass smaller than 100 GeV. Furthermore, exclusion limits are set for left-handed squarks in a phenomenological MSSM model, a minimal Supergravity/Constrained MSSM model, R-parity-violation scenarios, a minimal gauge-mediated supersymmetry breaking model, a natural gauge mediation model, a non-universal Higgs mass model with gaugino mediation and a minimal model of universal extra dimensions.
Searches for the Zγ decay mode of the Higgs boson and for new high-mass resonances in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This article presents searches for the Zγ decay of the Higgs boson and for narrow high-mass resonances decaying to Zγ, exploiting Z boson decays to pairs of electrons or muons. The data analysis uses 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The data are found to be consistent with the expected Standard Model background. The observed (expected - assuming Standard Model pp→ H→ Zγ production and decay) upper limit on the production cross section times the branching ratio for pp→ H→ Zγ is 6.6 (5.2) times the Standard Model prediction at the 95% confidence level for a Higgs boson mass of 125.09 GeV. In addition, upper limits are set on the production cross section times the branching ratio as a function of the mass of a narrow resonance between 250 GeV and 2.4 TeV, assuming spin-0 resonances produced via gluon-gluon fusion, and spin-2 resonances produced via gluon-gluon or quark-antiquark initial states. For high-mass spin-0 resonances, the observed (expected) limits vary between 88 fb (61 fb) and 2.8 fb (2.7 fb) for the mass range from 250 GeV to 2.4 TeV at the 95% confidence level.
Search for a charged Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for a charged Higgs boson is performed with a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 ± 0.5 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. The charged Higgs boson is searched for in top quark decays for m_H^± lower then m_t - m_b, and in the direct production pp → t (b) H^± for m_H^± larger than m_t - m_b. The H^±→τ^±ν_τ and H^±→ t b decay modes in the final states τ_ h+jets, μτ_ h, ℓ+jets, and ℓℓ' (ℓ = e, μ) are considered in the search. No signal is observed and 95% confidence level upper limits are set on the charged Higgs boson production. A model-independent upper limit on the product branching fraction ℬ( t→ H^± b)  ℬ(H^±→τ^±ν_τ)= 1.2-0.15% is obtained in the mass range m_H^± = 80-160 GeV, while the upper limit on the cross section times branching fraction σ( pp → t (b) H^±)  ℬ (H^±→τ^±ν_τ)= 0.38-0.025 pb is set in the mass range m_H^+ = 180-600 GeV. Here, cross section σ( pp→ t(b)H^±) stands for the sum σ( pp→ t( b) H^+) + σ( pp→ t( b) H^-). Assuming ℬ( H^±→ t b)= 1, an upper limit on σ ( pp→ t ( b)  H^±) of 2.0-0.13 pb is set for m_H^± = 180-600 GeV. The combination of all considered decay modes and final states is used to set exclusion limits in the m_H^±-tanβ parameter space in different MSSM benchmark scenarios.
Search for doubly-charged Higgs bosons in like-sign dilepton final states at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for doubly-charged Higgs bosons decaying to pairs of electrons and/or muons is presented. The search is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Pairs of prompt, isolated, high-pT leptons with the same electric charge (ee, emu, mumu) are selected, and their invariant mass distribution is searched for a narrow resonance. No significant excess over Standard Model background expectations is observed, and limits are placed on the cross section times branching ratio for pair production of doubly-charged Higgs bosons. The masses of doubly-charged Higgs bosons are constrained depending on the branching ratio into these leptonic final states. Assuming pair production, coupling to left-handed fermions, and a branching ratio of 100% for each final state, masses below 409 GeV, 375 GeV, and 398 GeV are excluded for ee, emu, mumu, respectively.
Search for Higgs bosons decaying to aa in the μμττ final state in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS experiment. A search for the decay to a pair of new particles of either the 125 GeV Higgs boson (h) or a second CP-even Higgs boson (H) is presented. The dataset correspods to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)= 8 TeV recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in 2012. The search was done in the context of the next-to-minimal supersymmetric standard model, in which the new particles are the lightest neutral pseudoscalar Higgs bosons (a). One of the two a bosons is required to decay to two muons while the other is required to decay to two τ-leptons. No significant excess is observed above the expected backgrounds in the dimuon invariant mass range from 3.7 GeV to 50 GeV. Upper limits are placed on the production of h→aa relative to the Standard Model gg→h production, assuming no coupling of the a boson to quarks. The most stringent limit is placed at 3.5% for m_a = 3.75 GeV. Upper limits are also placed on the production cross section of H→aa from 2.33 pb to 0.72 pb, for fixed m_a = 5 GeV with m_H ranging from 100 GeV to 500 GeV.
Search for Higgs and Z boson decays to J/ψ or Υ pairs in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeVSearch for Higgs and Z boson decays to J/ψ or Υ pairs in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for decays of the Higgs and Z boson to pairs of J/ψ or Υ(nS) (n=1,2,3) mesons, with their subsequent decay to μ^+μ^- pairs, is presented. The analysis uses data from proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the LHC in 2017 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 37.5 fb^-1. While an observation of such a decay with this sample would indicate the presence of physics beyond the standard model, no significant excess is observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are placed on the branching fractions of these decays. In the J/ψ pair channel, the limits are 1.8 × 10^-3 and 2.2 × 10^-6 for the Higgs and Z boson, respectively, while in the combined Υ(nS) pair channel, the limits are 1.4 × 10^-3 and 1.5 × 10^-6, respectively, when the mesons from the Higgs and Z boson decay are assumed to be unpolarized. When fully longitudinal and transverse polarizations are considered the limits reduce by about 22-29% and increase by about 10-13%, respectively.
Search for anomalous electroweak production of vector boson pairs in association with two jets in proton-proton collisions at 13 TeV. A search for anomalous electroweak production of WW, WZ, and ZZ boson pairs in association with two jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV at the LHC is reported. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector. Events are selected by requiring two jets with large rapidity separation and invariant mass, one or two leptons (electrons or muons), and a W or Z boson decaying hadronically. Constraints on the structure of quartic vector boson interactions in the framework of dimension-8 effective field theory operators are reported. Stringent limits on parameters of the effective field theory operators are obtained. The observed 95% confidence level limits for the S0, M0, and T0 operators are -2.7 < f_S0/ Λ^4 < 2.7, -1.0 < f_M0/ Λ^4 < 1.0, and -0.17 < f_T0/ Λ^4 < 0.16, in units of TeV^-4. Constraints are also reported on the product of the cross section and branching fraction for vector boson fusion production of charged Higgs bosons as a function of mass from 600 to 2000 GeV. The results are interpreted in the context of the Georgi-Machacek model.
Measurements of properties of the Higgs boson decaying to a W boson pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. Measurements of the production of the standard model Higgs boson decaying to a W boson pair are reported. The W^+W^- candidates are selected in events with an oppositely charged lepton pair, large missing transverse momentum, and various numbers of jets. To select Higgs bosons produced via vector boson fusion and associated production with a W or Z boson, events with two jets or three or four leptons are also selected. The event sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, collected in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV by the CMS detector at the LHC during 2016. Combining all channels, the observed cross section times branching fraction is 1.28 ^+0.18_-0.17 times the standard model prediction for the Higgs boson with a mass of 125.09 GeV. This is the first observation of the Higgs boson decay to W boson pairs by the CMS experiment.
A Measurement of the τ^-→μ^-ν_μν_τ Branching Ratio. The tau -> mu nu nu branching ratio has been measured using data collected from 1990 to 1995 by the OPAL detector at the LEP collider. The resulting value of B(tau -> mu nu nu) = 0.1734 +- 0.0009(stat) +- 0.0006(syst) has been used in conjunction with other OPAL measurements to test lepton universality, yielding the coupling constant ratios gmu/ge=1.0005+-0.0044 and gt/ge=1.0031+-0.0048, in good agreement with the Standard Model prediction of unity. A value for the Michel parameter eta = 0.004 +- 0.037 has also been determined and used to find a limit for the mass of the charged Higgs boson mH+- > 1.25 tan beta, in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model.
Search for dark matter produced in association with a dark Higgs boson decaying into W^± W^∓ or ZZ in fully hadronic final states from √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions recorded with the ATLAS detector. Several extensions of the Standard Model predict the production of dark matter particles at the LHC. An uncharted signature of dark matter particles produced in association with VV=W^± W^∓ or ZZ pairs from a decay of a dark Higgs boson s is searched for using 139 fb^-1 of pp collisions recorded by the ATLAS detector at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The s→ V(qq̅)V(qq̅) decays are reconstructed with a novel technique aimed at resolving the dense topology from boosted VV pairs using jets in the calorimeter and tracking information. Dark Higgs scenarios with m_s > 160 GeV are excluded.
Determination of the off-shell Higgs boson signal strength in the high-mass ZZ and WW final states with the ATLAS detector. Measurements of the ZZ and WW final states in the mass range above the 2m_Z and 2m_W thresholds provide a unique opportunity to measure the off-shell coupling strength of the Higgs boson. This paper presents a determination of the off-shell Higgs boson event yields normalised to the Standard Model prediction (signal strength) in the ZZ → 4ℓ, ZZ→ 2ℓ2ν and WW→ eνμν final states. The result is based on pp collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 at a collision energy of √(s)=8 TeV. Using the CL_s method, the observed 95% confidence level (CL) upper limit on the off-shell signal strength is in the range 5.1–8.6, with an expected range of 6.7–11.0. In each case the range is determined by varying the unknown gg→ ZZ and gg→ WW background K-factor from higher-order QCD corrections between half and twice the value of the known signal K-factor. Assuming the relevant Higgs boson couplings are independent of the energy scale of the Higgs production, a combination with the on-shell measurements yields an observed (expected) 95% CL upper limit on Γ_H/Γ_H^SM in the range 4.5–7.5 (6.5–11.2) using the same variations of the background K-factor. Assuming that the unknown gg→ VV background K-factor is equal to the signal K-factor, this translates into an observed (expected) 95% CL upper limit on the Higgs boson total width of 22.7 (33.0) MeV.
Searches for the neutral Higgs bosons of the MSSM in e^+ e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies of 181-184 GeV. The data collected by ALEPH at LEP at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 181 to 184 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 57 pb-1, are analysed to search for pair-produced neutral Higgs bosons h and A, in the b bbar b bbar and tau+ tau- b bbar final states. Two events are found in the data with 2.5 expected from standard model processes. When combined with the lower energy data collected by ALEPH and with earlier reported searches for associated hZ production, these analyses are interpreted in the context of the minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model (MSSM). For standard choices of MSSM parameter sets, this combination results in 95% C.L. exclusion lower limits of 72.2 and 76.1 GeV/c2 for mh and mA, irrespective of tan(beta). A scan of the MSSM parameter space is performed in which the model parameters are varied over wide ranges. For low values of , i.e., for 1 < tan(beta) < 2, the limit on mh of 88 GeV/c2 is shown to be robust, being satisfied in essentially all of the physically allowed domain.
Search for dark matter in events with a hadronically decaying W or Z boson and missing transverse momentum in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for dark matter pair production in association with a W or Z boson in pp collisions representing 20.3 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity at √(s)=8 TeV using data recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. Events with a hadronic jet with the jet-mass consistent with a W or Z boson, and with large missing transverse momentum are analyzed. The data are consistent with the Standard Model expectations, and limits are set on the mass scale in effective field theories that describe the interaction of dark matter and Standard Model particles.
Search for dark matter produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to γγ or τ^+τ^- at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for dark matter particles is performed by looking for events with large transverse momentum imbalance and a recoiling Higgs boson decaying to either a pair of photons or a pair of τ leptons. The search is based on proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected at the CERN LHC in 2016 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. No significant excess over the expected standard model background is observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are presented for the product of the production cross section and branching fraction in the context of two benchmark simplified models. For the Z'-two-Higgs-doublet model (where Z' is a new massive boson mediator) with an intermediate heavy pseudoscalar particle of mass m_A = 300 GeV and m_DM = 100 GeV, Z' masses from 550 GeV up to 1265 GeV are excluded. For a baryonic Z' model, with m_DM = 1 GeV, Z' masses up to 615 GeV are excluded. Results are also presented for the spin-independent cross section for the dark matter-nucleon interaction as a function of the mass of the dark matter particle. This is the first search for dark matter particles produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to two τ leptons.
Search for the minimal standard model Higgs boson in e+e- collisions at LEP.
Search for production of vector-like quark pairs and of four top quarks in the lepton-plus-jets final state in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for pair production of vector-like quarks, both up-type (T) and down-type (B), as well as for four-top-quark production, is presented. The search is based on pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV recorded in 2012 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. Data are analysed in the lepton-plus-jets final state, characterised by an isolated electron or muon with high transverse momentum, large missing transverse momentum and multiple jets. Dedicated analyses are performed targeting three cases: a T quark with significant branching ratio to a W boson and a b-quark (TT̅→ Wb+X), and both a T quark and a B quark with significant branching ratio to a Higgs boson and a third-generation quark (TT̅→ Ht+X and BB̅→ Hb+X respectively). No significant excess of events above the Standard Model expectation is observed, and 95% CL lower limits are derived on the masses of the vector-like T and B quarks under several branching ratio hypotheses assuming contributions from T → Wb, Zt, Ht and B → Wt, Zb, Hb decays. The 95% CL observed lower limits on the T quark mass range between 715 GeV and 950 GeV for all possible values of the branching ratios into the three decay modes, and are the most stringent constraints to date. Additionally, the most restrictive upper bounds on four-top-quark production are set in a number of new physics scenarios.
Search for high-mass dilepton resonances in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider is used to search for high-mass resonances decaying to dielectron or dimuon final states. Results are presented from an analysis of proton–proton (pp) collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 in the dielectron channel and 20.5 fb^-1 in the dimuon channel. A narrow resonance with Standard Model Z couplings to fermions is excluded at 95% confidence level for masses less than 2.79 TeV in the dielectron channel, 2.53 TeV in the dimuon channel, and  2.90 TeV in the two channels combined.  Limits on other model interpretations are also presented, including a grand-unification model based on the E_6 gauge group, Z^* bosons, Minimal Z' Models,  a spin-2 graviton excitation from Randall–Sundrum models, quantum black holes and a Minimal Walking Technicolor model with a composite Higgs boson.
Search for the production of a long-lived neutral particle decaying within the ATLAS hadronic calorimeter in association with a Z boson from pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. This Letter presents a search for the production  of a long-lived neutral particle decaying within the ATLAS hadronic calorimeter, in association with a Standard Model Z boson produced via an intermediate scalar boson, where  Z → l^+ l^- (l=e,μ). The data used were collected by the ATLAS detector during 2015 and 2016 pp collisions with a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. No significant excess of events is observed above the expected background. Limits on the production cross section of the scalar boson times its decay branching fraction into the long-lived neutral particle are derived as a function of the mass of the intermediate scalar boson, the mass of the long-lived neutral particle, and its cτ from a few centimeters to one hundred meters.  In the case that the intermediate scalar boson is the SM Higgs boson, its decay branching fraction to a long-lived neutral particle with a cτ approximately between 0.1 m  and 7 m is excluded with a 95% confidence level up to 10% for m_Z_d between 5 and 15 GeV.
Search for flavour-changing neutral current top quark decays t→ Hq in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for flavour-changing neutral current decays of a top quark to an up-type quark (q=u, c) and the Standard Model Higgs boson, where the Higgs boson decays to bb̅, is presented. The analysis searches for top quark pair events in which one top quark decays to Wb, with the W boson decaying leptonically, and the other top quark decays to Hq. The search is based on pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV recorded in 2012 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider and uses an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. Data are analysed in the lepton-plus-jets final state, characterised by an isolated electron or muon and at least four jets. The search exploits the high multiplicity of b-quark jets characteristic of signal events, and employs a likelihood discriminant that uses the kinematic differences between the signal and the background, which is dominated by tt̅→ WbWb decays. No significant excess of events above the background expectation is found, and observed (expected) 95% CL upper limits of 0.56% (0.42%) and 0.61% (0.64%) are derived for the t→ Hc and t→ Hu branching ratios respectively. The combination of this search with other ATLAS searches in the H →γγ and H→ WW^*, ττ decay modes significantly improves the sensitivity, yielding observed (expected) 95% CL upper limits on the t→ Hc and t→ Hu branching ratios of 0.46% (0.25%) and 0.45% (0.29%) respectively. The corresponding combined observed (expected) upper limits on the |λ_tcH| and |λ_tuH| couplings are 0.13 (0.10) and 0.13 (0.10) respectively. These are the most restrictive direct bounds on tqH interactions measured so far.
Searches for heavy Higgs bosons in two-Higgs-doublet models and for t→ch decay using multilepton and diphoton final states in pp collisions at 8 TeV. Searches are presented for heavy scalar (H) and pseudoscalar (A) Higgs bosons posited in the two doublet model (2HDM) extensions of the standard model (SM). These searches are based on a data sample of pp collisions collected with the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 fb^-1. The decays H→hh and A→Zh, where h denotes an SM-like Higgs boson, lead to events with three or more isolated charged leptons or with a photon pair accompanied by one or more isolated leptons. The search results are presented in terms of the H and A production cross sections times branching fractions and are further interpreted in terms of 2HDM parameters. We place 95% CL cross section upper limits of approximately 7 pb on σℬ for H→hh and 2 pb for A→Zh. Also presented are the results of a search for the rare decay of the top quark that results in a charm quark and an SM Higgs boson, t→ch, the existence of which would indicate a nonzero flavor-changing Yukawa coupling of the top quark to the Higgs boson. We place a 95% CL upper limit of 0.56% on ℬ(t→ch).
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson in e^+ e^- Collisions at √(s) = 161-172 GeV. This paper describes a search for the Standard Model Higgs boson using data from e^+e^- collisions collected at center-of-mass energies of 161, 170 and 172 GeV by the OPAL detector at LEP. The data collected at these energies correspond to integrated luminosities of 10.0, 1.0 and 9.4 pb^-1, respectively. The search is sensitive to the main final states from the process in which the Higgs boson is produced in association with a fermion anti-fermion pair, namely four jets, two jets with missing energy, and two jets produced together with a pair of electron, muon or tau leptons. One candidate event is observed, in agreement with the Standard Model background expectation. In combination with previous OPAL searches at center-of-mass energies close to the Z^0 resonance and the revised previous OPAL searches at 161 GeV, we derive a lower limit of 69.4 GeV for the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson at the 95% confidence level.
Final results of the searches for neutral Higgs bosons in e^+e^- collisions at √(s) up to 209 GeV. The final results of the ALEPH search for the Standard Model Higgs boson at LEP, with data collected in the year 2000 at centre-of-mass energies up to 209,GeV, are presented. The changes with respect to the preceding publication are described and a complete study of systematic effects is reported. The findings of this final analysis confirm the preliminary results published in November 2000 shortly after the closing down of the LEP collider: a significant excess of events is observed, consistent with the production of a 115, Gcs Standard Model Higgs boson.% The final results of the searches for the neutral Higgs bosons of the MSSM are also reported, in terms of limits on mh, mA and anb.% Limits are also set on mh in the case of invisible decays.
Searches for exclusive Higgs and Z boson decays into J/ψγ, ψ(2S)γ, and Υ(nS)γ at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Searches for the exclusive decays of the Higgs and Z bosons into a J/ψ, ψ(2S), or Υ(nS) (n=1,2,3) meson and a photon are performed with a pp collision data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess of events is observed above the expected backgrounds, and 95% confidence-level upper limits on the branching fractions of the Higgs boson decays to J/ψγ, ψ(2S)γ, and Υ(nS)γ of 3.5×10^-4, 2.0×10^-3, and (4.9,5.9,5.7)×10^-4, respectively, are obtained assuming Standard Model production. The corresponding 95% confidence-level upper limits for the branching fractions of the Z boson decays are 2.3×10^-6, 4.5×10^-6 and (2.8,1.7,4.8)×10^-6, respectively.
Search for resonant pair production of Higgs bosons decaying to bottom quark-antiquark pairs in proton-proton collisions at 13 TeV. A search for a narrow-width resonance decaying into two Higgs bosons, each decaying into a bottom quark-antiquark pair, is presented. The search is performed using proton-proton collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 at √(s)= 13 TeV recorded by the CMS detector at the LHC. No evidence for such a signal is observed. Upper limits are set on the product of the production cross section for the resonance and the branching fraction for the selected decay mode in the resonance mass range from 260 to 1200 GeV.
Search for massive WH resonances decaying into the ℓν b b̅ final state at √(s)= 8 TeV. A search for a massive resonance W' decaying into a W and a Higgs boson in the l nu b anti-b (l = e, mu) final state is presented. Results are based on data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 inverse femtobarns of proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s)=8 TeV, collected using the CMS detector at the LHC. For a high-mass (> 1 TeV) resonance, the two bottom quarks coming from the Higgs boson decay are reconstructed as a single jet, which can be tagged by placing requirements on its substructure and flavour. Exclusion limits at 95% confidence level are set on the production cross section of a narrow resonance decaying into WH, as a function of its mass. In the context of a little Higgs model, a lower limit on the W' mass of 1.4 TeV is set. In a heavy vector triplet model that mimics the properties of composite Higgs models, a lower limit on the W' mass of 1.5 TeV is set. In the context of this model, the results are combined with related searches to obtain a lower limit on the W' mass of 1.8 TeV, the most restrictive to date for decays to a pair of standard model bosons.
Search for Heavy Isosinglet Neutrinos in e^+ e^- Annihilation at 130 < √(s) < 189 GeV. A search for heavy neutrinos that are isosinglets under the standard SU(2)_L gauge group is made at center-of-mass energies 130 < √(s) < 189 GeV with the L3 detector at LEP. Such heavy neutrinos are expected in many extensions of the Standard Model. The search is performed for the first generation heavy singlet neutrino, N_e, through the decay mode N_e →e + W. We set upper limits on the mixing parameter between the heavy and light neutrino for the heavy neutrino mass range from 80 GeV to 185 GeV.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with a vector boson and decaying into a tau pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with a vector boson with the decay H→ττ is presented. The data correspond to 20.3 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity from proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC during 2012. The data agree with the background expectation, and 95% confidence-level upper limits are placed on the cross section of this process. The observed (expected) limit, expressed in terms of the signal strength μ = σ/σ_SM for m_H = 125 GeV, is μ < 5.6 (3.7). The measured value of the signal strength is μ = 2.3±1.6.
Search for the Higgs boson decays H → ee and H → eμ in pp  collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Searches for the Higgs boson decays H → ee and H → e μ are performed using data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV at the LHC. No significant signals are observed, in agreement with the Standard Model expectation. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, the observed (expected) upper limit at the 95% confidence level on the branching fraction ℬ(H → ee) is 3.6 × 10^-4 (3.5 × 10^-4) and on ℬ(H → e μ) is 6.1× 10^-5 (5.8× 10^-5). These results represent improvements by factors of about five and six on the previous best limits on ℬ(H → ee) and ℬ(H → e μ) respectively.
A measurement of the Higgs boson mass in the diphoton decay channel. A measurement of the mass of the Higgs boson in the diphoton decay channel is presented. This analysis is based on 35.9 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data collected during the 2016 LHC running period, with the CMS detector at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. A refined detector calibration and new analysis techniques have been used to improve the precision of this measurement. The Higgs boson mass is measured to be m_H = 125.78 ± 0.26 GeV. This is combined with a measurement of m_H already performed in the H → ZZ → 4 ℓ decay channel using the same data set, giving m_H = 125.46 ± 0.16 GeV. This result, when further combined with an earlier measurement of m_H using data collected in 2011 and 2012 with the CMS detector, gives a value for the Higgs boson mass of m_H = 125.38 ± 0.14 GeV. This is currently the most precise measurement of the mass of the Higgs boson.
Search for Anomalous Production of Acoplanar Di-lepton Events in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s)=183 and 189 GeV. A selection of di-lepton events with significant missing transverse momentum has been performed using a total data sample of 237.4 pb-1 at e+e- centre-of-mass energies of 183 GeV and 189 GeV. The observed numbers of events - 78 at 183 GeV and 301 at 189 GeV - are consistent with the numbers expected from Standard Model processes, which arise predominantly from W+W- production with each W decaying leptonically. This topology is also an experimental signature for the pair production of new particles that decay to a charged lepton accompanied by one or more invisible particles. Discrimination techniques are described that optimise the sensitivity to particular new physics channels. No evidence for new phenomena is apparent and model independent limits are presented on the production cross-section times branching ratio squared for sleptons and for leptonically decaying charginos and charged Higgs. Assuming a 100 % branching ratio for the decay of a slepton to a lepton and the lightest neutralino, we exclude at 95 % CL: right-handed smuons with masses below 82.3 GeV for a smuon-neutralino mass difference > 3 Gev and right-handed staus with masses below 81.0 GeV for a stau-neutralino mass difference > 8 GeV. Right-handed selectrons are excluded at 95% CL for masses below 87.1 GeV for a selectron-neutralino mass diffeerence > 5GeV, within the framework of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model assuming mu < -100 GeV and tanbeta = 1.5. Charged Higgs bosons are excluded at 95% CL for masses below 82.8GeV, assuming a 100% branching ratio for their decay to tau+neutrino.
A search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons in Z^0 decays.
Observation of H → bb̅ decays and VH production with the ATLAS detector. A search for the decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson into a bb̅ pair when produced in association with a W or Z boson is performed with the ATLAS detector. The data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 79.8 fb^-1 were collected in proton-proton collisions during Run 2 of the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, an excess of events over the expected background from other Standard Model processes is found with an observed (expected) significance of 4.9 (4.3) standard deviations. A combination with the results from other searches in Run 1 and in Run 2 for the Higgs boson in the bb̅ decay mode is performed, which yields an observed (expected) significance of 5.4 (5.5) standard deviations, thus providing direct observation of the Higgs boson decay into b-quarks. The ratio of the measured event yield for a Higgs boson decaying into bb̅ to the Standard Model expectation is 1.01 ± 0.12 (stat.) ^+0.16_-0.15(syst.). Additionally, a combination of Run 2 results searching for the Higgs boson produced in association with a vector boson yields an observed (expected) significance of 5.3 (4.8) standard deviations.
Search for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson produced in association with bottom quarks in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV. A search for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson (A) produced in association with bottom quarks and decaying into a muon pair is reported. The search uses 19.7 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, collected by the CMS experiment. No signal is observed in the dimuon mass range from 25 to 60 GeV. Upper limits on the cross section times branching fraction, σ( p  p → b b̅A) ℬ(A→μμ), are set.
Searches for invisible decays of the Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s)= 7, 8, and 13 TeV. Searches for invisible decays of the Higgs boson are presented. The data collected with the CMS detector at the LHC correspond to integrated luminosities of 5.1, 19.7, and 2.3 fb^-1 at centre-of-mass energies of 7, 8, and 13 TeV, respectively. The search channels target Higgs boson production via gluon fusion, vector boson fusion, and in association with a vector boson. Upper limits are placed on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay to invisible particles, as a function of the assumed production cross sections. The combination of all channels, assuming standard model production, yields an observed (expected) upper limit on the invisible branching fraction of 0.24 (0.23) at the 95% confidence level. The results are also interpreted in the context of Higgs-portal dark matter models.
A search for the Zγ decay mode of the Higgs boson in pp  collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Zγ decay of the Higgs boson, with Z boson decays into pairs of electrons or muons is presented. The analysis uses proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The observed data are consistent with the expected background with a p-value of 1.3%. An upper limit at 95% confidence level on the production cross-section times the branching ratio for pp→ H→ Zγ is set at 3.6 times the Standard Model prediction while 2.6 times is expected in the presence of the Standard Model Higgs boson. The best-fit value for the signal yield normalised to the Standard Model prediction is 2.0^+1.0_-0.9 where the statistical component of the uncertainty is dominant.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with W and Z bosons in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. A search for the Higgs boson produced in association with a W or Z boson in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV is performed with the CMS detector at the LHC using the full 2011 data sample, from an integrated luminosity of 5 inverse femtobarns. Higgs boson decay modes to tau tau and WW are explored by selecting events with three or four leptons in the final state. No excess above the standard model expectation is observed, resulting in exclusion limits on the product of Higgs associated production cross section and decay branching fraction for Higgs boson masses between 110 and 200 GeV in these channels. Combining these results with other CMS associated production searches using the same dataset in the H →γγ and H → bb̅ decay modes, the cross section for associated Higgs boson production 3.3 times the standard model expectation or larger is ruled out at the 95% confidence level for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV.
Search for dark matter produced with an energetic jet or a hadronically decaying W or Z boson at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for dark matter particles is performed using events with large missing transverse momentum, at least one energetic jet, and no leptons, in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 12.9 fb^-1. The search includes events with jets from the hadronic decays of a W or Z boson. The data are found to be in agreement with the predicted background contributions from standard model processes. The results are presented in terms of simplified models in which dark matter particles are produced through interactions involving a vector, axial-vector, scalar, or pseudoscalar mediator. Vector and axial-vector mediator particles with masses up to 1.95 TeV, and scalar and pseudoscalar mediator particles with masses up to 100 and 430 GeV respectively, are excluded at 95% confidence level. The results are also interpreted in terms of the invisible decays of the Higgs boson, yielding an observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper limit of 0.44 (0.56) on the corresponding branching fraction. The results of this search provide the strongest constraints on the dark matter pair production cross section through vector and axial-vector mediators at a particle collider. When compared to the direct detection experiments, the limits obtained from this search provide stronger constraints for dark matter masses less than 5, 9, and 550 GeV, assuming vector, scalar, and axial-vector mediators, respectively. The search yields stronger constraints for dark matter masses less than 200 GeV, assuming a pseudoscalar mediator, when compared to the indirect detection results from Fermi-LAT.
Measurements of BR(b →τ^-ν_τX) and BR(b →τ^-ν_τ D^*±X) and Upper Limits on BR(B^-→τ^-ν_τ) and BR(b → sνν). Inclusive branching ratios involving b to tau transitions are measured in approximately four million hadronic Z decays collected by the ALEPH detector at LEP. The fully-inclusive branching ratio b -> tau nu X and the semi-inclusive branching ratio b -> tau nu D*+/- X are measured to be (2.43 +/- 0.20 +/- 0.25)% and (0.88 +/- 0.31 +/- 0.28)%, in agreement with the standard model predictions. Upper limits on the branching fractions b -> tau nu and b -> s nu nubar are set to 8.3 10**-4 and 6.4 10**-4 at the 90% C.L. These results allow a 90% C.L. lower limit of 0.40 (GeV/c**2)**-1 to be set on the tan(beta)/mH+/- ratio, in the framework of type-II two-Higgs-doublet models.
Search for top squarks in events with a Higgs or Z boson using 139 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This paper presents a search for direct top squark pair production in events with missing transverse momentum plus either a pair of jets consistent with Standard Model Higgs boson decay into b-quarks or a same-flavour opposite-sign dilepton pair with an invariant mass consistent with a Z boson. The analysis is performed using the proton-proton collision data at √(s)=13 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector during the LHC Run-2, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1. No excess is observed in the data above the Standard Model predictions. The results are interpreted in simplified models featuring direct production of pairs of either the lighter top squark (t̃_1) or the heavier top squark (t̃_2), excluding at 95% confidence level t̃_1 and t̃_2 masses up to about 1220 and 875 GeV, respectively.
Measurements of the Higgs boson width and anomalous HVV couplings from on-shell  and off-shell  production in the four-lepton final state. Studies of on-shell and off-shell Higgs boson production in the four-lepton final state are presented, using data from the CMS experiment at the LHC that correspond to an integrated luminosity of 80.2 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. Joint constraints are set on the Higgs boson total width and parameters that express its anomalous couplings to two electroweak vector bosons. These results are combined with those obtained from the data collected at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 and 19.7 fb^-1, respectively. Kinematic information from the decay particles and the associated jets are combined using matrix element techniques to identify the production mechanism and to increase sensitivity to the Higgs boson couplings in both production and decay. The constraints on anomalous HVV couplings are found to be consistent with the standard model expectation in both the on-shell and off-shell regions. Under the assumption of a coupling structure similar to that in the standard model, the Higgs boson width is constrained to be 3.2 ^+2.8_-2.2 MeV while the expected constraint based on simulation is 4.1 ^+5.0_-4.0 MeV. The constraints on the width remain similar with the inclusion of the tested anomalous HVV interactions.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying into two photons in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. A search for a Higgs boson decaying into two photons is described. The analysis is performed using a dataset recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC from pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV, which corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.8 inverse femtobarns. Limits are set on the cross section of the standard model Higgs boson decaying to two photons. The expected exclusion limit at 95% confidence level is between 1.4 and 2.4 times the standard model cross section in the mass range between 110 and 150 GeV. The analysis of the data excludes, at 95% confidence level, the standard model Higgs boson decaying into two photons in the mass range 128 to 132 GeV. The largest excess of events above the expected standard model background is observed for a Higgs boson mass hypothesis of 124 GeV with a local significance of 3.1 sigma. The global significance of observing an excess with a local significance greater than 3.1 sigma anywhere in the search range 110-150 GeV is estimated to be 1.8 sigma. More data are required to ascertain the origin of this excess.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have collected a total of 2461 pb-1 of e+e- collision data at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209 GeV. The data are used to search for the Standard Model Higgs boson. The search results of the four collaborations are combined and examined in a likelihood test for their consistency with two hypotheses: the background hypothesis and the signal plus background hypothesis. The corresponding confidences have been computed as functions of the hypothetical Higgs boson mass. A lower bound of 114.4 GeV/c2 is established, at the 95% confidence level, on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson. The LEP data are also used to set upper bounds on the HZZ coupling for various assumptions concerning the decay of the Higgs boson.
Measurement of charged current triple gauge boson couplings using W pairs at LEP. Triple gauge boson couplings are measured from W-pair and single photon events recorded by the OPAL detector at LEP at center-of-mass energies between 183 - 209 GeV with a total integrated luminosity of 680 inverse picobarns. Only CP-conserving couplings are considered and SU(2)xU(1) relations between the WWZ and the WWgamma couolings are used, resulting in four independent couplings. Each coupling is determined in a separate fit, assuming the other couplings to take their Standard Model values. Fits are also done allowing some of the couplings to vary simultaneously. The results are compared with the Standard Model predictions.
Search for a low mass CP-odd Higgs boson in e^+e^- collisions with the OPAL detector at LEP2. We have analysed the data collected by OPAL at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209 GeV searching for Higgs boson candidates from the process e+e- -> h0Z0 followed by the decay of h0 -> A0A0 where A0 is the CP-odd Higgs boson. The search is done in the region where the A0 mass, mA, is below the production threshold for bbbar, and the CP-even Higgs boson mass mh is within the range 45-86 GeV/c^2. In this kinematic range, the decay of h0 -> A0A0 may be dominant and previous Higgs boson searches have very small sensitivities. This search can be interpreted within any model that predicts the existence of at least one scalar and one pseudoscalar Higgs boson. No excess of events is observed above the expected Standard Model backgrounds. Model-independent limits on the cross-section for the process e+e- -> h0Z0 are derived assuming 100% decays of the h0 into A0A0 and 100% decays of the A0A0 into each of the following final states: ccbarccbar, gggg, tau+tau-tau+tau-, ccbargg ggtau+tau- and ccbartau+tau-. The results are also interpreted in the CP-conserving no-mixing MSSM scenario, where the region 45 <= mh <= 85 GeV/c^2 and 2<= mA <= 9.5 GeV/c^2 is excluded.
Search for a low mass CP-odd Higgs boson in e^+e^- collisions with the OPAL detector at LEP2. We have analysed the data collected by OPAL at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209 GeV searching for Higgs boson candidates from the process e+e- -> h0Z0 followed by the decay of h0 -> A0A0 where A0 is the CP-odd Higgs boson. The search is done in the region where the A0 mass, mA, is below the production threshold for bbbar, and the CP-even Higgs boson mass mh is within the range 45-86 GeV/c^2. In this kinematic range, the decay of h0 -> A0A0 may be dominant and previous Higgs boson searches have very small sensitivities. This search can be interpreted within any model that predicts the existence of at least one scalar and one pseudoscalar Higgs boson. No excess of events is observed above the expected Standard Model backgrounds. Model-independent limits on the cross-section for the process e+e- -> h0Z0 are derived assuming 100% decays of the h0 into A0A0 and 100% decays of the A0A0 into each of the following final states: ccbarccbar, gggg, tau+tau-tau+tau-, ccbargg ggtau+tau- and ccbartau+tau-. The results are also interpreted in the CP-conserving no-mixing MSSM scenario, where the region 45 <= mh <= 85 GeV/c^2 and 2<= mA <= 9.5 GeV/c^2 is excluded.
Search for a heavy Standard Model Higgs boson in the channel H → ZZ → l^+ l^-qq using the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy Standard Model Higgs boson decaying via H->ZZ->llqq, where l=e,mu, is presented. The search is performed using a data set of pp collisions at sqrt(s)=7 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 1.04 fb^-1 collected in 2011 by the ATLAS detector at the CERN LHC collider. No significant excess of events above the estimated background is found. Upper limits at 95% confidence level on the production cross section (relative to that expected from the Standard Model) of a Higgs boson with a mass in the range between 200 and 600 GeV are derived. Within this mass range, there is at present insufficient sensitivity to exclude a Standard Model Higgs boson. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 360 GeV, where the sensitivity is maximal, the observed and expected cross section upper limits are factors of 1.7 and 2.7, respectively, larger than the Standard Model prediction.
Search for a new resonance decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the ℓℓ/ ℓν/ νν + b b̅ final states with the ATLAS Detector. A search for a new resonance decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the ℓℓ/ ℓν/ νν + b b̅ final states is performed using 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collision data recorded at √(s)= 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The search is conducted by examining the WH/ZH invariant mass distribution for a localized excess. No significant deviation from the Standard Model background prediction is observed. The results are interpreted in terms of constraints on the Minimal Walking Technicolor model and on a simplified approach based on a phenomenological Lagrangian of Heavy Vector Triplets.
Search for long-lived, weakly interacting particles that decay to displaced hadronic jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the decay of neutral, weakly interacting, long-lived particles using data collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. This analysis uses the full dataset recorded in 2012: 20.3 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV. The search employs techniques for reconstructing decay vertices of long-lived particles decaying to jets in the inner tracking detector and muon spectrometer. Signal events require at least two reconstructed vertices. No significant excess of events over the expected background is found, and limits as a function of proper lifetime are reported for the decay of the Higgs boson and other scalar bosons to long-lived particles and for Hidden Valley Z^' and Stealth SUSY benchmark models. The first search results for displaced decays in Z^' and Stealth SUSY models are presented. The upper bounds of the excluded proper lifetimes are the most stringent to date.
Precise determination of the mass of the Higgs boson and tests of compatibility of its couplings with the standard model predictions using proton collisions at 7 and 8 TeV. Properties of the Higgs boson with mass near 125 GeV are measured in proton-proton collisions with the CMS experiment at the LHC. Comprehensive sets of production and decay measurements are combined. The decay channels include γγ, ZZ, WW, ττ, bb, and μμ pairs. The data samples were collected in 2011 and 2012 and correspond to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1 fb^-1 at 7 TeV and up to 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV. From the high-resolution γγ and ZZ channels, the mass of the Higgs boson is determined to be m_H = 125.02 ^+0.26_-0.27 (stat) ^+0.14 _-0.15 (syst)  GeV. For this mass value, the event yields obtained in the different analyses tagging specific decay channels and production mechanisms are consistent with those expected for the standard model Higgs boson. The combined best-fit signal relative to the standard model expectation is 1.00 ± 0.09 (stat) ^+0.08_-0.07  (theo) ± 0.07 (syst) at the measured mass. The couplings of the Higgs boson are probed for deviations in magnitude from the standard model predictions in multiple ways, including searches for invisible and undetected decays. No significant deviations are found.
Search for the neutral Higgs boson from Z^0 decay.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons decaying to τ^+ τ^- pairs in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for neutral Higgs bosons decaying to pairs of tau leptons with the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. The analysis is based on proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV, recorded in 2010 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36 pb^-1. After signal selection, 276 events are observed in this data sample. The observed number of events is consistent with the total expected background of 269 +/- 36 events. Exclusion limits at the 95% confidence level are derived for the production cross section of a generic Higgs boson phi as a function of the Higgs boson mass and for A/H/h production in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM) as a function of the parameters m_A and tan(beta). 
Search for Neutral Higgs Bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model in e^+e^- Interactions at √(s) up to 209 GeV. A search for the lightest neutral CP-even and neutral CP-odd Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model is performed using 216.6 pb-1 of data collected with the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies between 203 and 209 GeV. No indication of a signal is found. Including our results from lower centre-of-mass energies, lower limits on the Higgs boson masses are set as a function of tan(beta) for several scenarios. For tan(beta) greater than 0.7 they are mh > 84.5 GeV and mA > 86.3 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Measurement of the Higgs boson mass from the H→γγ and H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ channels with the ATLAS detector using 25 fb^-1 of pp collision data. An improved measurement of the mass of the Higgs boson is derived from a combined fit to the invariant mass spectra of the decay channels H→γγ and H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ. The analysis uses the pp collision data sample recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider at center-of-mass energies of 7 TeV and 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 25 fb^-1. The measured value of the Higgs boson mass is m_H = 125.36 ± 0.37  (stat)± 0.18  (syst) GeV. This result is based on improved energy-scale calibrations for photons, electrons, and muons as well as other analysis improvements, and supersedes the previous result from ATLAS. Upper limits on the total width of the Higgs boson are derived from fits to the invariant mass spectra of the H→γγ and H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ decay channels.
A search for neutral Higgs bosons in the MSSM and models with two scalar field doublets. A search is described for the neutral Higgs bosons h^0 and A^0 predicted by models with two scalar field doublets and, in particular, the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). The search in the Z^0 h^0 and h^0 A^0 production channels is based on data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 25 pb^-1 from e^+e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies between 130 and 172GeV collected with the OPAL detector at LEP. The observation of a number of candidates consistent with Standard Model background expectations is used in combination with earlier results from data collected at the Z^0 resonance to set limits on m_h and m_A in general models with two scalar field doublets and in the MSSM. For example, in the MSSM, for tan(beta) > 1, minimal and maximal scalar top quark mixing and soft SUSY-breaking masses of 1 TeV, the 95% confidence level limits m_h > 59.0 GeV and m_A > 59.5 GeV are obtained. For the first time, the MSSM parameter space is explored in a detailed scan.
Search for trilepton resonances from chargino and neutralino pair production in √(s) = 13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for the electroweak pair production of charginos and associated production of a chargino and neutralino, each of which decays through an R-parity-violating coupling into a lepton and a W,   Z, or Higgs boson. The trilepton invariant-mass spectrum is constructed from events with three or more leptons, targeting chargino decays that include an electron or muon and a leptonically decaying Z boson. The analyzed dataset corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data produced by the Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV and collected by the ATLAS experiment between 2015 and 2018. The data are found to be consistent with predictions from the Standard Model. The results are interpreted as limits at 95% confidence level on model-independent cross sections for processes beyond the Standard Model. Limits are also set on the production of charginos and neutralinos for a Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model with an approximate B - L symmetry. Charginos and neutralinos with masses between 100 GeV and 1100 GeV are excluded depending on the assumed decay branching fractions into a lepton (electron, muon, or τ-lepton) plus a boson (W, Z, or Higgs).
Measurements of inclusive semileptonic branching fractions of b hadrons in Z^0 decays. A measurement of inclusive semileptonic branching fractions of b hadrons produced in Z decays is presented. An enriched Z -> bbbar sample is obtained with a lifetime flavour-tagging technique. The leptonic events are then selected from this sample, and classified according to their origin, which is determined by comparing the distribution of several kinematic variables using artificial neural network techniques. Using 3.6 million multihadronic events collected with the OPAL detector at energies near the Z resonance, the values BR(b->lX) =(10.83 +- 0.10(stat.) +- 0.20(syst.) +0.20 -0.13(model)) % BR(b->c->lX) = (8.40 +- 0.16(stat.) +- 0.21(syst.) +0.33 -0.29 (model)) % are measured, where b denotes all weakly decaying b hadrons and l represents either e or mu. The second error includes all experimental systematic uncertainties whereas the last error is due to uncertainties in modelling of the lepton momentum spectrum in semileptonic decays and b quark fragmentation. The average fraction of the beam energy carried by the weakly decaying b hadron, xe, is measured to be <xe> = 0.709 +- 0.003(stat.) +- 0.003 (syst.) +- 0.013(model) where the modelling error is dominated by the choice of b fragmentation model. The agreement between data and various semileptonic decay models and fragmentation functions is also investigated.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s) = 192-209 GeV. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson has been performed with the OPAL detector at LEP based on the full data sample collected at sqrt(s) = 192-209 GeV in 1999 and 2000, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of approximately 426 pb-1. The data are examined for their consistency with the background-only hypothesis and various Higgs boson mass hypotheses. A lower bound of 109.7 GeV is obtained on the Higgs boson mass at the 95% confidence level. At higher masses, the data are consistent with both the background and the signal-plus-background hypotheses.
Search for associated production of dark matter with a Higgs boson decaying to bb or γγ at √(s)=13 TeV. A search for dark matter is performed using events with large missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson decaying either to a pair of bottom quarks or to a pair of photons. The data from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, collected in 2015 with the CMS detector at the LHC, correspond to an integrated luminosity of 2.3 inverse femtobarns. Results are interpreted in the context of a Z'-two-Higgs-doublet model, where the gauge symmetry of the standard model is extended to a U(1)[Z'] group, with a new massive Z' gauge boson, and the Higgs sector is extended with four additional Higgs bosons. In this model, a high-mass resonance Z' decays into a pseudoscalar boson A and a light SM-like Higgs boson, and the A decays to a pair of dark matter particles. No significant excesses are observed over the background prediction. Combining results from the two decay channels yields exclusion limits in the signal cross section in the m[Z']-m[A] phase space. For example, the observed data exclude the Z' mass range from 600 to 1860 GeV, for Z' coupling strength g[Z'] = 0.8, the coupling of A with dark matter particles g[chi] = 1, the ratio of the vacuum expectation values tan[beta] = 1, and m[A] = 300 GeV. The results of this analysis are valid for any dark matter particle mass below 100 GeV.
Search for a massive diphoton resonance at √(s) = 91-172 GeV. A search for the resonant production of high mass photon pairs associated with a leptonic or hadronic system has been performed using a total data sample of 25.7 pb^-1 taken at centre-of-mass energies between 130 GeV and 172 GeV with the OPAL detector at LEP. The observed number of events is consistent with the expected number from Standard Model processes. The observed candidates are combined with search results from sqrts M_Z to place limits on Br(H^0 -> gamma gamma) within the Standard Model for Higgs boson masses up to 77 GeV, and on the production cross section of any scalar resonance decaying into di-photons. Upper limits on Br(H^0 -> gamma gamma) x sigma(e^+e^- -> H^0 Z^0) of 290 - 830 fb are obtained over 40 < M_H < 160 GeV. Type-I two-Higgs-doublet scalars which couple only to gauge bosons are ruled out up to a mass of 76.5 GeV at the 95% confidence level.
Combined Measurement of the Higgs Boson Mass in pp Collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV with the ATLAS and CMS Experiments. A measurement of the Higgs boson mass is presented based on the combined data samples of the ATLAS and CMS experiments at the CERN LHC in the H →γγ and H → ZZ→ 4ℓ decay channels. The results are obtained from a simultaneous fit to the reconstructed invariant mass peaks in the two channels and for the two experiments. The measured masses from the individual channels and the two experiments are found to be consistent among themselves. The combined measured mass of the Higgs boson is m_H = 125.09±0.21 (stat.)±0.11 (syst.)GeV.
Search for pair-produced leptoquarks in e^+e^- interactions at √(s)≃ 183 GeV. A search for pair-produced leptoquarks has been performed using a sample of e+e- collision events collected by the OPAL detector at LEP at e+e- centre-of-mass energies of about 183 GeV. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 55.9 pb-1. The leptoquarks were assumed to be produced via couplings to the photon and the Z0 and then to decay within a single fermion generation. No evidence for contributions from leptoquark pair production processes was observed. Lower limits on scalar and vector leptoquark masses are obtained. The existing limits are improved in the region of large decay branching ratio to quark-neutrino.
Search for a Higgs boson decaying into γ^*γ→ℓℓγ with low dilepton mass in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search is described for a Higgs boson decaying into two photons, one of which has an internal conversion to a muon or an electron pair (ℓℓγ). The analysis is performed using proton-proton collision data recorded with the CMS detector at the LHC at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The events selected have an opposite-sign muon or electron pair and a high transverse momentum photon. No excess above background has been found in the three-body invariant mass range 120 < m_ℓℓγ < 150 GeV, and limits have been derived for the Higgs boson production cross section times branching fraction for the decay H→γ^* γ→ℓℓγ, where the dilepton invariant mass is less than 20 GeV. For a Higgs boson with m_H = 125 GeV, a 95% confidence level (CL) exclusion observed (expected) limit is 7.7 (6.4^+3.1_-2.0) times the standard model prediction. Additionally, an upper limit at 95% CL on the branching fraction of H→(J/ψ)γ for the 125 GeV Higgs boson is set at 1.5×10^-3.
Search for dark matter in events with a hadronically decaying vector boson and missing transverse momentum in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for dark matter (DM) particles produced in association with a hadronically decaying vector boson is performed using pp collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1, recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. This analysis improves on previous searches for processes with hadronic decays of W and Z bosons in association with large missing transverse momentum (mono-W/Z searches) due to the larger dataset and further optimization of the event selection and signal region definitions. In addition to the mono-W/Z search, the as yet unexplored hypothesis of a new vector boson Z^' produced in association with dark matter is considered (mono-Z^' search). No significant excess over the Standard Model prediction is observed. The results of the mono-W/Z search are interpreted in terms of limits on invisible Higgs boson decays into dark matter particles, constraints on the parameter space of the simplified vector-mediator model and generic upper limits on the visible cross sections for W/Z+DM production. The results of the mono-Z^' search are shown in the framework of several simplified-model scenarios involving DM production in association with the Z^' boson.
Measurement of differential and integrated fiducial cross sections for Higgs boson production in the four-lepton decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV. Differential and integrated fiducial cross sections for the production of four leptons via the H→ 4ℓ decays (ℓ = e, μ) are measured in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV. Measurements are performed with data corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 fb^-1 at 7 TeV, and 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV, collected with the CMS experiment at the LHC. Differential cross sections are determined as functions of the transverse momentum and rapidity of the four-lepton system, accompanying jet multiplicity, transverse momentum of the leading jet, and difference in rapidity between the Higgs boson candidate and the leading jet. A measurement of the Z→ 4ℓ cross section, and its ratio to the H→ 4ℓ cross section is also performed. All cross sections are measured within a fiducial phase space defined by the requirements on lepton kinematics and event topology. The integrated H→ 4ℓ fiducial cross section is measured to be 0.56^ +0.67_ -0.44(stat) ^ +0.21_ -0.06(syst) fb at 7 TeV, and 1.11^ +0.41_ -0.35(stat) ^ +0.14_ -0.10(syst) fb at 8 TeV. The measurements are found to be compatible with theoretical calculations based on the standard model.
Search for production of Higgs boson pairs in the four b quark final state using large-area jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is presented for pair production of the standard model Higgs boson using data from proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, collected by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC in 2016, and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The final state consists of two b quark-antiquark pairs. The search is conducted in the region of phase space where one pair is highly Lorentz-boosted and is reconstructed as a single large-area jet, and the other pair is resolved and is reconstructed using two b-tagged jets. The results are obtained by combining this analysis with another from CMS looking for events with two large jets. Limits are set on the product of the cross sections and branching fractions for narrow bulk gravitons and radions in warped extra-dimensional models having a mass in the range 750-3000 GeV. The resulting observed and expected upper limits on the non-resonant Higgs boson pair production cross section correspond to 179 and 114 times the standard model value, respectively, at 95% confidence level. The existence of anomalous Higgs boson couplings is also investigated and limits are set on the non-resonant Higgs boson pair production cross sections for representative coupling values.
Search for a Higgs boson in the mass range from 145 to 1000 GeV decaying to a pair of W or Z bosons. A search for a heavy Higgs boson in the H → WW and H → ZZ decay channels is reported. The search is based upon proton-proton collision data samples corresponding to an integrated luminosity of up to 5.1 fb^-1 at √(s) = 7 TeV and up to 19.7 fb^-1 at √(s) = 8 TeV, recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC. Several final states of the H → WW and H → ZZ decays are analyzed. The combined upper limit at the 95% confidence level on the product of the cross section and branching fraction exclude a Higgs boson with standard model-like couplings and decays in the m_H range from 145 to 1000 GeV. We also interpret the results in the context of an electroweak singlet extension of the standard model.
Search for Neutral Higgs Bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model in e^+ e^- Interactions at √(s)=192-202 GeV. A search for the lightest neutral CP-even and the neutral CP-odd Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model is performed using 233.2 pb-1 of integrated luminosity collected with the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies 192-202 GeV. No signal is observed and lower mass limits are given as a function of tan(beta) for two scalar top mixing hypotheses. For tan(beta) greater than 0.8, they are mh > 83.4 GeV and mA > 83.8 GeV at 95 % confidence level.
Search for resonant WZ production in the fully leptonic final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy resonance decaying into WZ in the fully leptonic channel (electrons and muons) is performed. It is based on proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. No significant excess is observed over the Standard Model predictions and limits are set on the production cross section times branching ratio of a heavy vector particle produced either in quark-antiquark fusion or through vector-boson fusion. Constraints are also obtained on the mass and couplings of a singly charged Higgs boson, in the Georgi-Machacek model, produced through vector-boson fusion.
Observation of a new boson with mass near 125 GeV in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV. A detailed description is reported of the analysis used by the CMS Collaboration in the search for the standard model Higgs boson in pp collisions at the LHC, which led to the observation of a new boson. The data sample corresponds to integrated luminosities up to 5.1 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 7 TeV, and up to 5.3 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 8 TeV. The results for five Higgs boson decay modes γγ, ZZ, WW, ττ, and bb, which show a combined local significance of 5 standard deviations near 125 GeV, are reviewed. A fit to the invariant mass of the two high resolution channels, gamma gamma and ZZ to 4 ell, gives a mass estimate of 125.3 +/- 0.4 (stat) +/- 0.5 (syst) GeV. The measurements are interpreted in the context of the standard model Lagrangian for the scalar Higgs field interacting with fermions and vector bosons. The measured values of the corresponding couplings are compared to the standard model predictions. The hypothesis of custodial symmetry is tested through the measurement of the ratio of the couplings to the W and Z bosons. All the results are consistent, within their uncertainties, with the expectations for a standard model Higgs boson.
Search for the neutral Higgs bosons of the minimal supersymmetric Standard Model from Z0 decays.
Search for Dark Matter in Events with Missing Transverse Momentum and a Higgs Boson Decaying to Two Photons in pp Collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS Detector. Results of a search for new phenomena in events with large missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson decaying to two photons are reported. Data from proton–proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 have been collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The observed data are well described by the expected Standard Model backgrounds. Upper limits on the cross section of events with large missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson candidate are also placed. Exclusion limits are presented for models of physics beyond the Standard Model featuring dark-matter candidates.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons decaying into a pair of bottom quarks. A search for neutral Higgs bosons decaying into a b b̅ quark pair and produced in association with at least one additional b quark is presented. This signature is sensitive to the Higgs sector of the minimal supersymmetric standard model (MSSM) with large values of the parameter tanβ. The analysis is based on data from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1.  The results are combined with a previous analysis based on 7 TeV data. No signal is observed. Stringent upper limits on the cross section times branching fraction are derived for Higgs bosons with masses up to 900 GeV, and the results are interpreted within different MSSM benchmark scenarios, m_h^max, m_h^mod+, m_h^mod-, light-stau and light-stop. Observed 95% confidence level upper limits on tanβ, ranging from 14 to 50, are obtained in the m_h^mod+ benchmark scenario.
Limits on the production of the Standard Model Higgs Boson in pp collisions at √(s) =7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) running at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV is reported, based on a total integrated luminosity of up to 40 pb-1 collected by the ATLAS detector in 2010. Several Higgs boson decay channels: H →γγ, H → ZZ^(*)→ llll, H → ZZ → llνν, H → ZZ → llqq, H → WW^(*)→ lνlν and H → WW → lνqq (l is e, μ) are combined in a mass range from 110 GeV to 600 GeV. The highest sensitivity is achieved in the mass range between 160 GeV and 170 GeV, where the expected 95% CL exclusion sensitivity is at Higgs boson production cross sections 2.3 times the Standard Model prediction. Upper limits on the cross section for its production are determined. Models with a fourth generation of heavy leptons and quarks with Standard Model-like couplings to the Higgs boson are also investigated and are excluded for a Higgs boson mass in the range from 140 GeV to 185 GeV.
Search for resonant pair production of Higgs bosons decaying to two bottom quark-antiquark pairs in proton-proton collisions at 8 TeV. A model-independent search for a narrow resonance produced in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV and decaying to a pair of 125 GeV Higgs bosons that in turn each decays into bottom quark-antiquark pairs is performed by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The analyzed data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 17.9 fb^-1. No evidence for a signal is observed. Upper limits at a 95% confidence level on the production cross section for such a resonance, in the mass range from 270 to 1100 GeV, are reported. Using these results, a radion with decay constant of 1 TeV and mass from 300 to 1100 GeV, and a Kaluza–Klein graviton with mass from 380 to 830 GeV are excluded at a 95% confidence level.
Search for a CP-odd Higgs boson decaying to Zh in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy, CP-odd Higgs boson, A, decaying into a Z boson and a 125 GeV Higgs boson, h, with the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. The search uses proton–proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. Decays of CP-even h bosons to ττ or bb pairs with the Z boson decaying to electron or muon pairs are considered, as well as h → bb decays with the Z boson decaying to neutrinos. No evidence for the production of an A boson in these channels is found and the 95% confidence level upper limits derived for σ (gg→ A) ×(A→ Zh) ×(h→ ff̅) are 0.098–0.013 pb for f=τ and 0.57–0.014 pb for f=b in a range of m_A = 220–1000 GeV. The results are combined and interpreted in the context of two-Higgs-doublet models.
Search for electroweak production of supersymmetric states in scenarios with compressed mass spectra at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for electroweak production of supersymmetric particles in scenarios with compressed mass spectra in final states with two low-momentum leptons and missing transverse momentum is presented. This search uses proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in 2015-2016, corresponding to 36.1 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity at √(s)=13 TeV. Events with same-flavor pairs of electrons or muons with opposite electric charge are selected. The data are found to be consistent with the Standard Model prediction. Results are interpreted using simplified models of R-parity-conserving supersymmetry in which there is a small mass difference between the masses of the produced supersymmetric particles and the lightest neutralino. Exclusion limits at 95% confidence level are set on next-to-lightest neutralino masses of up to 145 GeV for Higgsino production and 175 GeV for wino production, and slepton masses of up to 190 GeV for pair production of sleptons. In the compressed mass regime, the exclusion limits extend down to mass splittings of 2.5 GeV for Higgsino production, 2 GeV for wino production, and 1 GeV for slepton production. The results are also interpreted in the context of a radiatively-driven natural supersymmetry model with non-universal Higgs boson masses.
Search for a very light NMSSM Higgs boson produced in decays of the 125 GeV scalar boson and decaying into τ leptons in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for a very light Higgs boson decaying into a pair of τ leptons is presented within the framework of the next-to-minimal supersymmetric standard model. This search is based on a data set corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions collected by the CMS experiment at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. The signal is defined by the production of either of the two lightest scalars, h_1 or h_2, via gluon-gluon fusion and subsequent decay into a pair of the lightest Higgs bosons, a_1 or h_1. The h_1 or h_2 boson is identified with the observed state at a mass of 125 GeV. The analysis searches for decays of the a_1  ( h_1 ) states into pairs of τ leptons and covers a mass range for the a_1  ( h_1 ) boson of 4 to 8 GeV. The search reveals no significant excess in data above standard model background expectations, and an upper limit is set on the signal production cross section times branching fraction as a function of the a_1  ( h_1 ) boson mass. The 95% confidence level limit ranges from 4.5 pb at m_ a_1  (m_ h_1 )= 8 GeV to 10.3 pb at m_ a_1  (m_ h_1 ) = 5 GeV.
Search for pair production of Higgs bosons in the bb̅bb̅ final state using proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅bb̅ final state is carried out with up to 36.1 fb^-1 of LHC proton–proton collision data collected at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016. Three benchmark signals are studied: a spin-2 graviton decaying into a Higgs boson pair, a scalar resonance decaying into a Higgs boson pair, and Standard Model non-resonant Higgs boson pair production. Two analyses are carried out, each implementing a particular technique for the event reconstruction that targets Higgs bosons reconstructed as pairs of jets or single boosted jets. The resonance mass range covered is 260–3000 GeV. The analyses are statistically combined and upper limits on the production cross section of Higgs boson pairs times branching ratio to bb̅bb̅ are set in each model. No significant excess is observed; the largest deviation of data over prediction is found at a mass of 280 GeV, corresponding to 2.3 standard deviations globally. The observed 95% confidence level upper limit on the non-resonant production is 13 times the Standard Model prediction.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons decaying to tau pairs in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. A search for neutral Higgs bosons decaying to tau pairs at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV is performed using a dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.6 inverse femtobarns recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The search is sensitive to both the standard model Higgs boson and to the neutral Higgs bosons predicted by the minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model (MSSM). No excess of events is observed in the tau-pair invariant-mass spectrum. For a standard model Higgs boson in the mass range of 110-145 GeV upper limits at 95% confidence level (CL) on the production cross section are determined. We exclude a Higgs boson with m(H)=115 GeV with a production cross section 3.2 times of that predicted by the standard model. In the MSSM, upper limits on the neutral Higgs boson production cross section times branching fraction to tau pairs, as a function of the pseudoscalar Higgs boson mass, m(A), sets stringent new bounds in the parameter space, excluding at 95% CL values of tan(beta) as low as 7.1 at m(A) = 160 GeV.
Electroweak Measurements in Electron-Positron Collisions at W-Boson-Pair Energies at LEP. Electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the electron-positron collider LEP at CERN from 1995 to 2000 are reported. The combined data set considered in this report corresponds to a total luminosity of about 3 fb^-1 collected by the four LEP experiments ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 130 GeV to 209 GeV. Combining the published results of the four LEP experiments, the measurements include total and differential cross-sections in photon-pair, fermion-pair and four-fermion production, the latter resulting from both double-resonant WW and ZZ production as well as singly resonant production. Total and differential cross-sections are measured precisely, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model at centre-of-mass energies never explored before in electron-positron collisions. Final-state interaction effects in four-fermion production, such as those arising from colour reconnection and Bose-Einstein correlations between the two W decay systems arising in WW production, are searched for and upper limits on the strength of possible effects are obtained. The data are used to determine fundamental properties of the W boson and the electroweak theory. Among others, the mass and width of the W boson, M_W and Γ_W, the branching fraction of W decays to hadrons, B(W→had), and the trilinear gauge-boson self-couplings g^Z_1, κ_γ and λ_γ are determined to be: m_W = 80.376 ± 0.033 GeV Γ_W = 2.195 ± 0.083 GeV B(W →had) = 67.41 ± 0.27% g^Z_1 = 0.984 ^+0.018_-0.020 κ_γ = 0.982 ± 0.042 λ_γ = -0.022 ± 0.019
Search for Physics Beyond the Standard Model in Events with High-Momentum Higgs Bosons and Missing Transverse Momentum in Proton-Proton Collisions at 13 TeV. A search for physics beyond the standard model in events with one or more high-momentum Higgs bosons, H, decaying to pairs of b quarks in association with missing transverse momentum is presented. The data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, were collected with the CMS detector at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at the center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV. The analysis utilizes a new b quark tagging technique based on jet substructure to identify jets from H→bb̅. Events are categorized by the multiplicity of H-tagged jets, jet mass, and the missing transverse momentum. No significant deviation from standard model expectations is observed. In the context of supersymmetry (SUSY), limits on the cross sections of pair-produced gluinos are set, assuming that gluinos decay to quark pairs, H (or Z), and the lightest SUSY particle, LSP, through an intermediate next-to-lightest SUSY particle, NLSP. With large mass splitting between the NLSP and LSP, and 100% NLSP branching fraction to H, the lower limit on the gluino mass is found to be 2010 GeV.
Search for the flavor-changing neutral current interactions of the top quark and the Higgs boson which decays into a pair of b quarks at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for flavor-changing neutral currents (FCNC) in events with the top quark and the Higgs boson is presented. The Higgs boson decay to a pair of b quarks is considered. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. Two channels are considered: single top quark FCNC production in association with the Higgs boson (pp → tH), and top quark pair production with FCNC decay of the top quark (t → qH). Final states with one isolated lepton and at least three reconstructed jets, among which at least two are associated with b quarks, are studied. No significant deviation is observed from the predicted background. Observed (expected) upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the branching fractions of top quark decays, ℬ(t → uH) < 0.47% (0.34%) and ℬ(t → cH) < 0.47% (0.44%), assuming a single nonzero FCNC coupling.
Search for vector-like T quarks decaying to top quarks and Higgs bosons in the all-hadronic channel using jet substructure. A search is performed for a vector-like heavy T quark that is produced in pairs and that decays to a top quark and a Higgs boson. The data analysed correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. For T quarks with large mass values the top quarks and Higgs bosons can have significant Lorentz boosts, so that their individual decay products often overlap and merge. Methods are applied to resolve the substructure of such merged jets. Upper limits on the production cross section of a T quark with mass between 500 and 1000 GeV/c^2 are derived. If the T quark decays exclusively to tH, the observed (expected) lower limit on the mass of the T quark is 745 (773) GeV/c^2 at 95% confidence level. For the first time an algorithm is used for tagging boosted Higgs bosons that is based on a combination of jet substructure information and b tagging.
Search for exclusive Higgs and Z boson decays to ϕγ and ργ with the ATLAS detector. A search for the exclusive decays of the Higgs and Z bosons to a ϕ or ρ meson and a photon is performed with a pp collision data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of up to 35.6 fb^-1 collected at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. These decays have been suggested as a probe of the Higgs boson couplings to light quarks. No significant excess of events is observed above the background, as expected from the Standard Model. Upper limits at 95% confidence level were obtained on the branching fractions of the Higgs boson decays to ϕγ and ργ of 4.8×10^-4 and 8.8×10^-4, respectively. The corresponding 95% confidence level upper limits for the Z boson decays are 0.9×10^-6 and 25×10^-6 for ϕγ and ργ, respectively.
Measurements of four-lepton production in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The four-lepton (4ℓ, ℓ = e, μ) production cross section is measured in the mass range from 80 to 1000 GeV using 20.3fb^-1 of data in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The 4ℓ events are produced in the decays of resonant Z and Higgs bosons and the non-resonant ZZ continuum originating from qq̅, gg, and qg initial states. A total of 476 signal candidate events are observed with a background expectation of 26.2 ± 3.6 events, enabling the measurement of the integrated cross section and the differential cross section as a function of the invariant mass and transverse momentum of the four-lepton system. In the mass range above 180 GeV, assuming the theoretical constraint on the qq̅ production cross section calculated with perturbative NNLO QCD and NLO electroweak corrections, the signal strength of the gluon-fusion component relative to its leading-order prediction is determined to be μ_gg=2.4 ± 1.0 ( stat.) ± 0.5 ( syst.)± 0.8 ( theory).
Searches for the standard Higgs boson.
Search for Charged Higgs Bosos in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s) = 189-209 GeV. A search is made for charged Higgs bosons predicted by Two-Higgs-Doublet extensions of the Standard Model (2HDM) using electron-positron collision data collected by the OPAL experiment at sqrts=189-209 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of approximately 600pb-1. Charged Higgs bosons are assumed to be pair-produced and to decay into qq, tnt or AWpm. No signal is observed. Model-independent limits on the charged Higgs-boson production cross section are derived by combining these results with previous searches at lower energies. Excluded areas on the [mHpm, BR(Hpm->TV)] plane are presented assuming BR(Hpm->tnt)+BR(Hpm->qq)=1. Under the above assumption, motivated by general 2HDM type II models, charged Higgs bosons are excluded up to a mass of 76.6GeV at 95% confidence level, independent of the branching ratio BR(Hpm->tnt). A scan of the 2HDM type I model parameter space is performed and limits on the Higgs-boson masses mHpm and mA are presented for different choices of tanb.
Search for long-lived particles in final states with displaced dimuon vertices in pp collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for a long-lived particle decaying into a final state that includes a pair of muons of opposite-sign electric charge, using proton-proton collision data collected at √(s)= 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 32.9 fb^-1. No significant excess over the Standard Model expectation is observed. Limits at 95% confidence level on the lifetime of the long-lived particle are presented in models of new phenomena including gauge-mediated supersymmetry or decay of the Higgs boson, H, to a pair of dark photons, Z_D. Lifetimes in the range cτ = 1-2400 cm are excluded, depending on the parameters of the model. In the supersymmetric model, the lightest neutralino is the next-to-lightest supersymmetric particle, with a relatively long lifetime due to its weak coupling to the gravitino, the lightest supersymmetric particle. The lifetime limits are determined for very light gravitino mass and various assumptions for the neutralino mass in the range 300 GeV to 1000 GeV. In the dark photon model, the lifetime limits are interpreted as exclusion contours in the plane of the coupling between the Z_D and the Standard Model Z boson versus the Z_D mass (in the range 20-60 GeV), for various assumptions for the H→ Z_D Z_D branching fraction.
Search for heavy Higgs bosons A/H decaying to a top quark pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy pseudoscalar (A) and scalar (H) Higgs bosons decaying into a top quark pair (tt̅) has been performed with 20.3 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV. Interference effects between the signal process and Standard Model tt̅ production, which are expected to distort the signal shape from a single peak to a peak–dip structure, are taken into account. No significant deviation from the Standard Model prediction is observed in the tt̅ invariant mass spectrum in final states with an electron or muon, large missing transverse momentum, and at least four jets. The results are interpreted within the context of a type-II two-Higgs-doublet model. Exclusion limits on the signal strength are derived as a function of the mass m_A/H and the ratio of the vacuum expectation values of the two Higgs fields, tanβ, for m_A/H > 500 GeV.
Search for new physics in final states with an energetic jet or a hadronically decaying W or Z boson and transverse momentum imbalance at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for new physics using events containing an imbalance in transverse momentum and one or more energetic jets arising from initial-state radiation or the hadronic decay of W or Z bosons is presented. A data sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the LHC and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, is used. The observed data are found to be in agreement with the expectation from standard model processes. The results are interpreted as limits on the dark matter production cross section in simplified models with vector, axial-vector, scalar, and pseudoscalar mediators. Interpretations in the context of fermion portal and nonthermal dark matter models are also provided. In addition, the results are interpreted in terms of invisible decays of the Higgs boson and set stringent limits on the fundamental Planck scale in the Arkani-Hamed, Dimopoulos, and Dvali model with large extra spatial dimensions.
Lower bound for the standard model Higgs boson mass from combining the results of the four LEP experiments.
Search for heavy resonances that decay into a vector boson and a Higgs boson in hadronic final states at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for heavy resonances with masses above 1 TeV, decaying to final states containing a vector boson and a Higgs boson, is presented. The search considers hadronic decays of the vector boson, and Higgs boson decays to b quarks. The decay products are highly boosted, and each collimated pair of quarks is reconstructed as a single, massive jet. The analysis is performed using a data sample collected in 2016 by the CMS experiment at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 inverse femtobarns. The data are consistent with the background expectation and are used to place limits on the parameters of a theoretical model with a heavy vector triplet. In the benchmark scenario with mass-degenerate W' and Z' bosons decaying predominantly to pairs of standard model bosons, for the first time heavy resonances for masses as high as 3.3 TeV are excluded at 95% confidence level, setting the most stringent limit to date on such states decaying into a vector boson and a Higgs boson.
Search for Charged Higgs Bosos in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s) = 189-209 GeV. A search is made for charged Higgs bosons predicted by Two-Higgs-Doublet extensions of the Standard Model (2HDM) using electron-positron collision data collected by the OPAL experiment at sqrts=189-209 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of approximately 600pb-1. Charged Higgs bosons are assumed to be pair-produced and to decay into qq, tnt or AWpm. No signal is observed. Model-independent limits on the charged Higgs-boson production cross section are derived by combining these results with previous searches at lower energies. Excluded areas on the [mHpm, BR(Hpm->TV)] plane are presented assuming BR(Hpm->tnt)+BR(Hpm->qq)=1. Under the above assumption, motivated by general 2HDM type II models, charged Higgs bosons are excluded up to a mass of 76.6GeV at 95% confidence level, independent of the branching ratio BR(Hpm->tnt). A scan of the 2HDM type I model parameter space is performed and limits on the Higgs-boson masses mHpm and mA are presented for different choices of tanb.
Search for vector-like light-flavor quark partners in proton-proton collisions at √(s) =8 TeV. A search is presented for heavy vector-like quarks (VLQs) that couple only to light quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV at the LHC. The data were collected by the CMS experiment during 2012 and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. Both single and pair production of VLQs are considered. The single-production search is performed for down-type VLQs (electric charge of magnitude 1/3), while the pair-production search is sensitive to up-type (charge of magnitude 2/3) and down-type VLQs. Final states with at least one muon or one electron are considered. No significant excess over standard model expectations is observed, and lower limits on the mass of VLQs are derived. The lower limits range from 400 to 1800 GeV, depending on the single-production cross section and the VLQ branching fractions B to W, Z, and Higgs bosons. When considering pair production alone, VLQs with masses below 845 GeV are excluded for B(W) = 1.0, and below 685 GeV for B(W) = 0.5, B(Z) = B(H) = 0.25. The results are more stringent than those previously obtained for single and pair production of VLQs coupled to light quarks.
Search for stop and higgsino production using diphoton Higgs boson decays. Results are presented of a search for a "natural" supersymmetry scenario with gauge mediated symmetry breaking. It is assumed that only the supersymmetric partners of the top-quark (stop) and the Higgs boson (higgsino) are accessible. Events are examined in which there are two photons forming a Higgs boson candidate, and at least two b-quark jets. In 19.7 inverse femtobarns of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV, recorded in the CMS experiment, no evidence of a signal is found and lower limits at the 95% confidence level are set, excluding the stop mass below 360 to 410 GeV, depending on the higgsino mass.
Search for two Higgs bosons in final states containing two photons and two bottom quarks in proton-proton collisions at 8 TeV. A search is presented for the production of two Higgs bosons in final states containing two photons and two bottom quarks. Both resonant and nonresonant hypotheses are investigated. The analyzed data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV collected with the CMS detector. Good agreement is observed between data and predictions of the standard model (SM). Upper limits are set at 95% confidence level on the production cross section of new particles and compared to the prediction for the existence of a warped extra dimension. When the decay to two Higgs bosons is kinematically allowed, assuming a mass scale Λ_R = 1 TeV for the model, the data exclude a radion scalar at masses below 980 GeV. The first Kaluza–Klein excitation mode of the graviton in Randall–Sundrum models is excluded for masses between 325 and 450 GeV. Limits set on nonresonant production constrain the parameter space for anomalous Higgs boson couplings.
Search for heavy resonances decaying into a photon and a hadronically decaying Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This Letter presents a search for the production of new heavy resonances decaying into a Higgs boson and a photon using proton-proton collision data at √(s)=13 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1. The analysis is performed by reconstructing hadronically decaying Higgs boson (H→ bb̅) candidates as single large-radius jets. A novel algorithm using information about the jet constituents in the center-of-mass frame of the jet is implemented to identify the two b-quarks in the single jet. No significant excess of events is observed above the expected background. Upper limits are set on the production cross-section times branching fraction for narrow spin-1 resonances decaying into a Higgs boson and a photon in the resonance mass range from 0.7 to 4 TeV, cross-sections times branching fraction are excluded between 11.6 fb and 0.11 fb at a 95% confidence level.
Search for invisible decays of a Higgs boson produced through vector boson fusion in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for invisible decays of a Higgs boson is performed using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search targets the production of a Higgs boson via vector boson fusion. The data are found to be in agreement with the background contributions from standard model processes. An observed (expected) upper limit of 0.33 (0.25), at 95% confidence level, is placed on the branching fraction of the standard model Higgs boson decay to invisible particles. The result from this analysis is combined with the ones from other searches for invisible decays of the Higgs boson performed using the 2016 data set. An observed (expected) upper limit of 0.26 (0.20), at 95% confidence level, is placed on the branching fraction of invisible decays of the Higgs boson, assuming standard model production rates. The combined expected result represents the most sensitive search for invisible decays of the Higgs boson to date. The result is also interpreted in the context of Higgs-portal dark matter models, in which upper bounds are placed on the spin-independent dark-matter-nucleon scattering cross section.
Flavour independent search for Higgs bosons decaying into hadronic final states in e+e- collisions. A search for the Higgsstrahlung process e+e- -> hZ is described, where the neutral Higgs boson h is assumed to decay into hadronic final states. In order to be sensitive to a broad range of models, the search is performed independent of the flavour content of the Higgs boson decay. The analysis is based on e+e- collision data collected by the OPAL detector at energies between 192 GeV and 209 GeV. The search does not reveal any significant excess over the Standard Model background prediction. Results are combined with previous searches at energies around 91 GeV and at 189 GeV. A limit is set on the product of the cross-section and the hadronic branching ration of the Higgs boson, as a function of the Higgs boson mass. Assuming the hZ coupling predicted by the Standard Model, and a Higgs boson decaying only into hadronic final states, a lower bound of 104 GeV/c2 is set on the mass at the 95% confidence level.
Search for invisibly decaying Higgs bosons in e^+e^-→ Z^0h^0 production at √(s) = 183 - 209 GeV. A search is performed for Higgs bosons decaying into invisible final states, produced in association with a Zo boson in e+e- collisions at energies between 183 and 209 GeV. The search is based on data samples collected by the OPAL detector at LEP corresponding to an integrated luminosity of about 660 pb-1. The analysis aims to select events containing the hadronic decay products of the Zo boson and large missing momentum, as expected from Higgs boson decay into a pair of stable weakly interacting neutral particles, such as the lightest neutralino in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model. The same analysis is applied to a search for nearly invisible Higgs boson cascade decays into stable weakly interacting neutral particles. No excess over the expected background from Standard Model processes is observed. Limits on the production of invisibly decaying Higgs bosons produced in association with a Zo boson are derived. Assuming a branching ratio BR(ho->invisible)=1, a lower limit of 108.2 GeV is placed on the Higgs boson mass at the 95% confidence level. Limits on the production of nearly invisibly decaying Higgs bosons are also obtained.
Search for Yukawa Production of a Light Neutral Higgs Boson at LEP. Within a Two-Higgs-Doublet Model (2HDM) a search for a light Higgs boson in the mass range of 4-12 GeV has been performed in the Yukawa process e+e- -> b bbar A/h -> b bbar tau+tau-, using the data collected by the OPAL detector at LEP between 1992 and 1995 in e+e- collisions at about 91 GeV centre-of-mass energy. A likelihood selection is applied to separate background and signal. The number of observed events is in good agreement with the expected background. Within a CP-conserving 2HDM type II model the cross-section for Yukawa production depends on xiAd = |tan beta| and xihd = |sin alpha/cos beta| for the production of the CP-odd A and the CP-even h, respectively, where tan beta is the ratio of the vacuum expectation values of the Higgs doublets and alpha is the mixing angle between the neutral CP-even Higgs bosons. From our data 95% C.L. upper limits are derived for xiAd within the range of 8.5 to 13.6 and for xihd between 8.2 to 13.7, depending on the mass of the Higgs boson, assuming a branching fraction into tau+tau- of 100%. An interpretation of the limits within a 2HDM type II model with Standard Model particle content is given. These results impose constraints on several models that have been proposed to explain the recent BNL measurement of the muon anomalous magnetic moment.
Search for a very light CP-odd neutral Higgs boson of the MSSM.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s)=161, 170 and 172 GeV. The reaction e+e- -> HZ is used to search for the Standard Model Higgs boson. The data sample consists of integrated luminosities of 10.9pb-1 1.1pb-1 and 9.5pb-1 collected by the ALEPH experiment at LEP during 1996, at centre-of-mass energies of 161, 170 and 172GeV, respectively. No candidate events were found, in agreement with the expected background of 0.84 events from all Standard Model processes. This search results in a 95%C.L. lower limit on the Higgs boson mass of 69.4GeV. When combined with earlier ALEPH searches performed at energies at and around the Z peak, this limit increases to 70.7GeV
Search for heavy Higgs bosons decaying to a top quark pair in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for additional scalar (H) or pseudoscalar (A) Higgs bosons decaying to a top quark pair in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The data set analyzed corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC. Final states with one or two charged leptons are considered. The invariant mass of the reconstructed top quark pair system and variables that are sensitive to the spin of the particles decaying into the top quark pair are used to search for signatures of the H or A bosons. The interference with the standard model top quark pair background is taken into account. A moderate signal-like deviation compatible with an A boson with a mass of 400 GeV is observed with a global significance of 1.9 standard deviations. New stringent constraints are reported on the strength of the coupling of the hypothetical bosons to the top quark, with the mass of the bosons ranging from 400 to 750 GeV and their total relative width from 0.5 to 25%. The results of the search are also interpreted in a minimal supersymmetric standard model scenario. Values of m_A from 400 to 700 GeV are probed, and a region with values of tanβ below 1.0 to 1.5, depending on m_A, is excluded at 95% confidence level.
Search for top quark decays via Higgs-boson-mediated flavor-changing neutral currents in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV. A search is performed for Higgs-boson-mediated flavor-changing neutral currents in the decays of top quarks. The search is based on proton-proton collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. Events in which a top quark pair is produced with one top quark decaying into a charm or up quark and a Higgs boson (H), and the other top quark decaying into a bottom quark and a W boson are selected. The Higgs boson in these events is assumed to subsequently decay into either dibosons or difermions. No significant excess is observed above the expected standard model background, and an upper limit at the 95% confidence level is set on the branching fraction ℬ ( t → Hc ) of 0.40% and ℬ( t → Hu) of 0.55%, where the expected upper limits are 0.43% and 0.40%, respectively. These results correspond to upper limits on the square of the flavor-changing Higgs boson Yukawa couplings |λ_ tc^H|^2 < 6.9× 10^-3 and |λ_ tu^H|^2 < 9.8 × 10^-3.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair in pp collisions at the LHC. A search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair is presented using data samples corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 5.0 inverse femtobarns (5.1 inverse femtobarns) collected in pp collisions at the center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV (8 TeV). Events are considered where the top-quark pair decays to either one lepton+jets (tt̅→ℓν qq̅' bb̅) or dileptons (tt̅→ℓ^+νℓ^-ν̅b b̅), ℓ being an electron or a muon. The search is optimized for the decay mode H → b b̅. The largest background to the t t̅ H signal is top-quark pair production with additional jets. Artificial neural networks are used to discriminate between signal and background events. Combining the results from the 7 TeV and 8 TeV samples, the observed (expected) limit on the cross section for Higgs boson production in association with top-quark pairs for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV is 5.8 (5.2) times the standard model expectation.
A Study of Parton Fragmentation in Hadronic Z^0 Decays Using ΛΛ Correlations. The correlated production of Lambda and Lambdabar baryons has been studied using 4.3 million multihadronic Zo decays recorded with the OPAL detector at LEP. Di-lambda pairs were investigated in the full data sample and for the first time also in 2-jet and 3-jet events selected with the k_t algorithm. The distributions of rapidity differences from correlated Lambda-Lambdabar pairs exhibit short-range, local correlations and prove to be a sensitive tool to test models, particularly for 2-jet events. The JETSET model describes the data best but some extra parameter tuning is needed to improve agreement with the experimental results in the rates and the rapidity spectra simultaneously. The recently developed modification of JETSET, the MOdified Popcorn Scenarium (MOPS), and also HERWIG do not give satisfactory results. This study of di-lambda production in 2- and 3-jet events supports the short-range compensation of quantum numbers.
Combination of searches for Higgs boson pairs in pp collisions at  √(s) =13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This letter presents a combination of searches for Higgs boson pair production using up to 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The combination is performed using six analyses searching for Higgs boson pairs decaying into the bbbb, bbWW, bbττ, WWWW, bbγγ and WWγγ final states. Results are presented for non-resonant and resonant Higgs boson pair production modes. The combined observed limit at 95% confidence level on the non-resonant Higgs boson pair production cross-section is 6.9 times the predicted Standard Model cross-section. Limits are also set on the ratio (κ_λ) of the Higgs boson self-coupling to its Standard Model value. This ratio is constrained at 95% confidence level to -5.0 < κ_λ <12.0. In addition, limits are set on the production of narrow scalar resonances and spin-2 Kaluza-Klein Randall-Sundrum gravitons. Exclusion regions are also provided in the parameter space of the habemus Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model and the Electroweak Singlet Model.
Observation of a new particle in the search for the Standard Model Higgs boson with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions with the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. The datasets used correspond to integrated luminosities of approximately 4.8 fb^-1 collected at √(s) = 7 TeV in 2011 and 5.8 fb^-1 at √(s) = 8 TeV in 2012. Individual searches in the channels H → ZZ^(*)→ llll, H →γγ and H → WW^(*)→ eνμν in the 8 TeV data are combined with previously published results of searches for H → ZZ^(*), WW^(*), bb̅ and τ^+ τ^- in the 7 TeV data and results from improved analyses of the H → ZZ^(*)→ llll and H →γγ channels in the 7 TeV data. Clear evidence for the production of a neutral boson with a measured mass of 126.0 ± 0.4(stat) ± 0.4(sys) GeV is presented. This observation, which has a significance of 5.9 standard deviations, corresponding to a background fluctuation probability of 1.7x10^-9, is compatible with the production and decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson.
Search for stop and higgsino production using diphoton Higgs boson decays. Results are presented of a search for a "natural" supersymmetry scenario with gauge mediated symmetry breaking. It is assumed that only the supersymmetric partners of the top-quark (stop) and the Higgs boson (higgsino) are accessible. Events are examined in which there are two photons forming a Higgs boson candidate, and at least two b-quark jets. In 19.7 inverse femtobarns of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV, recorded in the CMS experiment, no evidence of a signal is found and lower limits at the 95% confidence level are set, excluding the stop mass below 360 to 410 GeV, depending on the higgsino mass.
Search for production of vector-like quark pairs and of four top quarks in the lepton-plus-jets final state in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for pair production of vector-like quarks, both up-type (T) and down-type (B), as well as for four-top-quark production, is presented. The search is based on pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV recorded in 2012 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. Data are analysed in the lepton-plus-jets final state, characterised by an isolated electron or muon with high transverse momentum, large missing transverse momentum and multiple jets. Dedicated analyses are performed targeting three cases: a T quark with significant branching ratio to a W boson and a b-quark (TT̅→ Wb+X), and both a T quark and a B quark with significant branching ratio to a Higgs boson and a third-generation quark (TT̅→ Ht+X and BB̅→ Hb+X respectively). No significant excess of events above the Standard Model expectation is observed, and 95% CL lower limits are derived on the masses of the vector-like T and B quarks under several branching ratio hypotheses assuming contributions from T → Wb, Zt, Ht and B → Wt, Zb, Hb decays. The 95% CL observed lower limits on the T quark mass range between 715 GeV and 950 GeV for all possible values of the branching ratios into the three decay modes, and are the most stringent constraints to date. Additionally, the most restrictive upper bounds on four-top-quark production are set in a number of new physics scenarios.
Measurements of tt̅H production and the CP structure of the Yukawa interaction between the Higgs boson and top quark in the diphoton decay channel. The first observation of the tt̅H  process in a single Higgs boson decay channel with the full reconstruction of the final state (H→γγ) is presented, with a significance of 6.6 standard deviations (σ). The CP structure of Higgs boson couplings to fermions is measured, resulting in an exclusion of the pure CP-odd structure of the top Yukawa coupling at 3.2σ. The measurements are based on a sample of proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy √(s)= 13 TeV collected by the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. The cross section times branching fraction of the tt̅H  process is measured to be σ_tt̅Hℬ_γγ= 1.56^+0.34_-0.32 fb, which is compatible with the standard model prediction of 1.13^+0.08_-0.11 fb. The fractional contribution of the CP-odd component is measured to be f_CP^Htt = 0.00 ± 0.33.
Measurement of the mass of the W boson in e^+e^- collisions using the fully leptonic channel. A novel method of determining the mass of the W boson in the W/sup + /W/sup -/ to l nu l' nu ' channel is presented and applied to 667 pb /sup -1/ of data recorded at center-of-mass energies in the range 183-207 GeV with the OPAL detector at LEP. The measured energies of charged leptons and the results of a new procedure based on an approximate kinematic reconstruction of the events are combined to give: M/sub W/=80.41+or-0.41+or-0.13 geV, where the first error is statistical and the second is systematic. The systematic error is dominated by the uncertainty on the lepton energy, which is calibrated using data, and the parameterization of the variables used in the fitting, which is obtained using Monte Carlo events. Both of these are limited by statistics. (20 refs).
Higgs boson production cross-section measurements and their EFT  interpretation in the 4ℓ decay channel at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Higgs boson properties are studied in the four-lepton decay channel (where lepton = e, μ) using 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded at √(s) = 13 TeV by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. The inclusive cross-section times branching ratio for H→ ZZ^* decay is measured to be 1.34 ± 0.12 pb for a Higgs boson with absolute rapidity below 2.5, in good agreement with the Standard Model prediction of 1.33 ± 0.08 pb. Cross-sections times branching ratio are measured for the main Higgs boson production modes in several exclusive phase-space regions. The measurements are interpreted in terms of coupling modifiers and of the tensor structure of Higgs boson interactions using an effective field theory approach. Exclusion limits are set on the CP-even and CP-odd `beyond the Standard Model' couplings of the Higgs boson to vector bosons, gluons and top quarks.
Measurements of Higgs boson production and couplings in diboson final states with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Measurements are presented of production properties and couplings of the recently discovered Higgs boson using the decays into boson pairs, H →γγ, H → ZZ* → 4l and H → WW* → lν lν. The results are based on the complete pp collision data sample recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider at centre-of-mass energies of √(s)=7 and √(s)=8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of about 25 fb^-1. Evidence for Higgs boson production through vector-boson fusion is reported. Results of combined fits probing Higgs boson couplings to fermions and bosons, as well as anomalous contributions to loop-induced production and decay modes, are presented. All measurements are consistent with expectations for the Standard Model Higgs boson.
Search for a heavy Higgs boson decaying to a pair of W bosons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for a heavy Higgs boson in the mass range from 0.2 to 3.0 TeV, decaying to a pair of W bosons, is presented. The analysis is based on proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The W boson pair decays are reconstructed in the 2ℓ 2ν  and ℓν 2q  final states (with ℓ = e or μ). Both gluon fusion and vector boson fusion production of the signal are considered. Interference effects between the signal and background are also taken into account. The observed data are consistent with the standard model (SM) expectation. Combined upper limits at 95% confidence level on the product of the cross section and branching fraction exclude a heavy Higgs boson with SM-like couplings and decays up to 1870 GeV. Exclusion limits are also set in the context of a number of two-Higgs-doublet model formulations, further reducing the allowed parameter space for SM extensions.
Inclusive search for highly boosted Higgs bosons decaying to bottom quark-antiquark pairs in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for standard model Higgs bosons (H) produced with transverse momentum (p_T) greater than 450 GeV and decaying to bottom quark-antiquark pairs (bb̅) is performed using proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at √(s) = 13 TeV. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. The search is inclusive in the Higgs boson production mode. Highly Lorentz-boosted Higgs bosons decaying to bb̅ are reconstructed as single large-radius jets, and are identified using jet substructure and a dedicated b tagging technique based on a deep neural network. The method is validated with Z→bb̅ decays. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, an excess of events above the background assuming no Higgs boson production is observed with a local significance of 2.5 standard deviations (σ), while the expectation is 0.7. The corresponding signal strength and local significance with respect to the standard model expectation are μ_H = 3.7 ± 1.2 (stat)_-0.7^+0.6 (syst)_-0.5^+0.8 (theo) and 1.9σ. Additionally, an unfolded differential cross section as a function of Higgs boson p_T for the gluon fusion production mode is presented, assuming the other production modes occur at the expected rates.
A flavour-independent Higgs boson search in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) up to 209 GeV. A search for the Higgsstrahlung process e+e- -> HZ is carried out, covering decays of the Higgs boson into any quark pair, a gluon pair or a tau pair. The analysis is based on the 630pb-1 of data collected by the ALEPH detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies from 189 to 209GeV. A 95% C.L. lower mass limit of 109.1GeV/c2 is obtained for a Higgs boson cross section equal to that expected from the Standard Model if the Higgs boson decays exclusively into hadrons and/or taus, irrespective of the relative branching fractions.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have collected a total of 2461 pb-1 of e+e- collision data at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209 GeV. The data are used to search for the Standard Model Higgs boson. The search results of the four collaborations are combined and examined in a likelihood test for their consistency with two hypotheses: the background hypothesis and the signal plus background hypothesis. The corresponding confidences have been computed as functions of the hypothetical Higgs boson mass. A lower bound of 114.4 GeV/c2 is established, at the 95% confidence level, on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson. The LEP data are also used to set upper bounds on the HZZ coupling for various assumptions concerning the decay of the Higgs boson.
Lower bound for the standard model Higgs boson mass from combining the results of the four LEP experiments.
Search for the neutral Higgs bosons of the MSSM and other two-doublet models.
Combination of searches for invisible Higgs boson decays with the ATLAS experiment. Dark matter particles, if sufficiently light, may be produced in decays of the Higgs boson. This Letter presents a statistical combination of searches for H→invisible decays where H is produced according to the Standard Model via vector boson fusion, Z(ℓℓ)H, and W/Z(had)H, all performed with the ATLAS detector using 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV at the LHC. In combination with the results at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV, an exclusion limit on the H→invisible branching ratio of  0.26 (0.17^+0.07_-0.05) at 95% confidence level is observed (expected).
Search for narrow high-mass resonances in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV decaying to Z and Higgs bosons. The first search for a narrow, high-mass resonance decaying into Z and Higgs (H) bosons is presented. The final state studied consists of a merged jet pair and a τ pair resulting from the decays of Z and H bosons, respectively. The analysis is based on a data sample of proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, collected with the CMS experiment in 2012, and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. In the resonance mass range of interest, the Z and H bosons are produced with large momenta, which implies that the final products of the two quarks or the two τ leptons must be detected within a small angular interval. From a combination of all possible decay modes of the τ leptons, production cross sections in a range between 0.9 and 27.8 fb are excluded at 95% confidence level, depending on the resonance mass.
Measurements of Higgs Bosons Decaying to Bottom Quarks from Vector Boson Fusion Production with the ATLAS Experiment at √(s)=13 TeV. The paper presents a measurement of the Standard Model Higgs Boson decaying to b-quark pairs in the vector boson fusion (VBF) production mode. A sample corresponding to 126 fb^-1 of √(s) = 13 TeV proton-proton collision data, collected with the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider, is analyzed utilizing an adversarial neural network for event classification.  The results are combined with an analysis of Higgs bosons decaying to b-quarks, produced via VBF in association with a photon. The signal strength, defined as the ratio of the measured signal yield to that predicted by the Standard Model, is measured to be 0.99^+0.35_-0.33 for Higgs boson production or 0.99^+0.36_-0.34 for VBF production only, corresponding to an observed (expected) significance of 3.0 (3.0) or 2.9 (2.9) standard deviations, respectively, from the background only hypothesis.  The sensitivity of the measurement is dominated by the analysis presented in this paper.
Inclusive search for a highly boosted Higgs boson decaying to a bottom quark-antiquark pair. An inclusive search for the standard model Higgs boson (H) produced with large transverse momentum (p_T) and decaying to a bottom quark-antiquark pair (bb) is performed using a data set of pp collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV collected with the CMS experiment at the LHC. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. A highly Lorentz-boosted Higgs boson decaying to bb is reconstructed as a single, large radius jet and is identified using jet substructure and dedicated b tagging techniques. The method is validated with Z→bb decays. The Z→bb process is observed for the first time in the single-jet topology with a local significance of 5.1 standard deviations (5.8 expected). For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, an excess of events above the expected background is observed (expected) with a local significance of 1.5 (0.7) standard deviations. The measured cross section times branching fraction for production via gluon fusion of H→bb with p_T >450 GeV and in the pseudorapidity range -2.5 < η < 2.5 is 74 ± 48 (stat) _-10^+17 (syst) fb, which is consistent within uncertainties with the standard model prediction.
Search for a Higgs Boson Decaying into Two Photons at LEP. A Higgs particle produced in association with a Z boson and decaying into two photons is searched for in the data collected by the L3 experiment at LEP. All possible decay modes of the Z boson are investigated. No signal is observed in 447.5 pb^-1 of data recorded at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. Limits on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay into two photons as a function of the Higgs mass are derived. A lower limit on the mass of a fermiophobic Higgs boson is set at 105.4 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Search for direct production of electroweakinos in final states with  missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson decaying into photons in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a chargino-neutralino pair decaying via the 125 GeV Higgs boson into photons is presented. The study is based on the data collected between 2015 and 2018 with the ATLAS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. No significant excess over the expected background is observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level for a massless χ̃^0_1 are set on several electroweakino production cross-sections and the visible cross-section for beyond the Standard Model processes. In the context of simplified supersymmetric models, 95% confidence-level limits of up to 310 GeV in m(χ̃^±_1/χ̃^0_2), where m(χ̃^0_1)=0.5 GeV, are set. Limits at 95% confidence level are also set on the χ̃^±_1χ̃^0_2 cross-section in the mass plane of m(χ̃^±_1/χ̃^0_2) and m(χ̃^0_1), and on scenarios with gravitino as the lightest supersymmetric particle. Upper limits at the 95% confidence-level are set on the higgsino production cross-section. Higgsino masses below 380 GeV are excluded for the case of the higgsino fully decaying into a Higgs boson and a gravitino.
Search for anomalous couplings in the Higgs sector at LEP. We search for a Higgs particle with anomalous couplings in the e^+e^-→Hγ, e^+e^-→HZ and e^+e^-→He^+e ^- processes with the L3 detector at LEP. We explore the mass range 70 GeV < m_H < 170 GeV using 176 pb^-1 of integrated luminosity at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 189 GeV. The Higgs decays H→bb, H→γγ and H→ Zγ are considered in the analysis. No evidence for anomalous Higgs production is found. This is interpreted in terms of limits on the anomalous couplings d, d_B, Δ g_1^Z and Δκ_γ. Limits on the Γ(H→γγ) and Γ(H→Zγ) partial widths in the explored Higgs mass range are also obtained.
Measurement of the four-lepton invariant mass spectrum in 13 TeV proton-proton collisions with the ATLAS detector. A measurement of the four-lepton invariant mass spectrum is made with the ATLAS detector, using an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV delivered by the Large Hadron Collider. The differential cross-section is measured for events containing two same-flavour opposite-sign lepton pairs. It exhibits a rich structure, with different mass regions dominated in the Standard Model by single Z boson production, Higgs boson production, and Z boson pair production, and non-negligible interference effects at high invariant masses. The measurement is compared with state-of-the-art Standard Model calculations, which are found to be consistent with the data. These calculations are used to interpret the data in terms of gg→ ZZ → 4ℓ and Z → 4ℓ subprocesses, and to place constraints on a possible contribution from physics beyond the Standard Model.
Measurement of the hadronic activity in events with a Z and two jets and extraction of the cross section for the electroweak production of a Z with two jets in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. The first measurement of the electroweak production cross section of a Z boson with two jets (Zjj) in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV is presented, based on a data sample recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC with an integrated luminosity of 5 inverse femtobarns. The cross section is measured for the lljj (l = e, μ) final state in the kinematic region m_ll 50 GeV, m_jj 120 GeV, transverse momenta p_T^j 25 GeV and pseudorapidity abs(η^j)  4.0. The measurement, combining the muon and electron channels, yields σ = 154 +/- 24 (stat.) +/- 46 (exp. syst.) +/- 27 (th. syst.) +/- 3 (lum.) fb, in agreement with the theoretical cross section. The hadronic activity, in the rapidity interval between the jets, is also measured. These results establish an important foundation for the more general study of vector boson fusion processes, of relevance for Higgs boson searches and for measurements of electroweak gauge couplings and vector boson scattering.
Search for a charged Higgs boson decaying to charm and bottom quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for charged Higgs boson decaying to a charm and a bottom quark (H^+→cb̅) is performed using 19.7 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV. The production mechanism investigated in this search is tt̅ pair production in which one top quark decays to a charged Higgs boson and a bottom quark and the other decays to a charged lepton, a neutrino, and a bottom quark. Charged Higgs boson decays to cb̅ are searched for, resulting in a final state containing at least four jets, a charged lepton (muon or electron), and missing transverse momentum. A kinematic fit is performed to identify the pair of jets least likely to be the bottom quarks originating from direct top quark decays and the invariant mass of this pair is used as the final observable in the search. No evidence for the presence of a charged Higgs boson is observed and upper limits at 95% confidence level of 0.8-0.5% are set on the branching fraction ℬ (t→H^+b ), assuming ℬ (H^+→cb̅ ) = 1.0 and ℬ (t→H^+b ) + ℬ (t→Wb ) = 1.0, for the charged Higgs boson mass range 90-150 GeV.
Search for non-minimal Higgs bosons in Z0 decays.
Precision electroweak measurements on the Z resonance. We report on the final electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the Z resonance by the experiments operating at the electron-positron colliders SLC and LEP. The data consist of 17 million Z decays accumulated by the ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL experiments at LEP, and 600 thousand Z decays by the SLD experiment using a polarised beam at SLC. The measurements include cross-sections, forward-backward asymmetries and polarised asymmetries. The mass and width of the Z boson, and , and its couplings to fermions, for example the ρ parameter and the effective electroweak mixing angle, are precisely measured. The number of light neutrino species is determined to be 2.9840+/-0.0082. The results are compared to the predictions of the Standard Model. Electroweak radiative corrections beyond the running of the QED and QCD coupling constants are observed with a significance of five standard deviations, and in agreement with the Standard Model. Of the many Z-pole measurements, the forward-backward asymmetry in b-quark production shows the largest difference with respect to its Standard Model expectation, at the level of 2.8 standard deviations. Through radiative corrections evaluated in the framework of the Standard Model, the masses of the top quark and the W Boson are predicted. These indirect constraints are compared to the direct measurements, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model. Using in addition the direct measurements of and , the mass of the as yet unobserved Standard Model Higgs boson is predicted.
Search for heavy vector-like quarks coupling to light quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This letter presents a search for singly produced vector-like quarks, Q, coupling to light quarks, q. The search is sensitive to both charged current (CC) and neutral current (NC) processes, p p –> Q q –> W q q' and p p –> Q q –> Z q q' with a leptonic decay of the vector gauge boson. In 1.04/fb of data taken in 2011 by the ATLAS experiment at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 7 TeV, no evidence of such heavy vector-like quarks is observed above the expected Standard Model background. Limits on the heavy vector-like quark production cross section times branching ratio as a function of mass m_Q are obtained. For a coupling κ_qQ = v/m_Q, where v is the Higgs vacuum expectation value, 95% C.L. lower limits on the mass of a vector-like quark are set at 900 GeV and 760 GeV from CC and NC processes, respectively.
Search for displaced muonic lepton jets from light Higgs boson decay in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for collimated muon pairs produced in the decay of long-lived neutral particles in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV center of mass energy, with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. In a sample of 1.94 fb-1 of collision events collected during 2011, the observed data are consistent with the Standard Model background expectations. Limits on the product of the production cross section and the branching fraction of a Higgs boson decaying to Hidden Valley neutral long-lived particles are derived as a function of the particles’ mean life time.
Searches for electroweak production of charginos, neutralinos, and sleptons decaying to leptons and W, Z, and Higgs bosons in pp collisions at 8 TeV. Searches for the direct electroweak production of supersymmetric charginos, neutralinos, and sleptons in a variety of signatures with leptons and W, Z, and Higgs bosons are presented. Results are based on a sample of proton-proton collision data collected at center-of-mass energy √(s) = 8 TeV with the CMS detector in 2012, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 inverse-femtobarn. The observed event rates are in agreement with expectations from the standard model. These results probe charginos and neutralinos with masses up to 720 GeV, and sleptons up to 280 GeV, depending on the model details.
Search for pair production of vector-like T and B quarks in single-lepton final states using boosted jet substructure techniques at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for pair production of massive vector-like T and B quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV is presented. The data set was collected in 2015 by the CMS experiment at the LHC and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of up to 2.6 fb^-1. The T and B quarks are assumed to decay through three possible channels into a heavy boson (either a W, Z or Higgs boson) and a third generation quark. This search is performed in final states with one charged lepton and several jets, exploiting techniques to identify W or Higgs bosons decaying hadronically with large transverse momenta. No excess over the predicted standard model background is observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level on the T quark pair production cross section are set that exclude T quark masses below 860 GeV in the singlet, and below 830 GeV in the doublet branching fraction scenario. For other branching fraction combinations with ℬ( t  H ) + ℬ( b  W ) ≥ 0.4, lower limits on the T quark range from 790 to 940 GeV. Limits are also set on pair production of singlet vector-like B quarks, which can be excluded up to a mass of 730 GeV. These limits are among the most stringent to date for vector-like T quarks. The techniques showcased here for understanding highly-boosted final states are important as the sensitivity to new particles is extended to higher masses.
Searches for invisible decays of the Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s)= 7, 8, and 13 TeV. Searches for invisible decays of the Higgs boson are presented. The data collected with the CMS detector at the LHC correspond to integrated luminosities of 5.1, 19.7, and 2.3 fb^-1 at centre-of-mass energies of 7, 8, and 13 TeV, respectively. The search channels target Higgs boson production via gluon fusion, vector boson fusion, and in association with a vector boson. Upper limits are placed on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay to invisible particles, as a function of the assumed production cross sections. The combination of all channels, assuming standard model production, yields an observed (expected) upper limit on the invisible branching fraction of 0.24 (0.23) at the 95% confidence level. The results are also interpreted in the context of Higgs-portal dark matter models.
Search for production of Higgs boson pairs in the four b quark final state using large-area jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is presented for pair production of the standard model Higgs boson using data from proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, collected by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC in 2016, and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The final state consists of two b quark-antiquark pairs. The search is conducted in the region of phase space where one pair is highly Lorentz-boosted and is reconstructed as a single large-area jet, and the other pair is resolved and is reconstructed using two b-tagged jets. The results are obtained by combining this analysis with another from CMS looking for events with two large jets. Limits are set on the product of the cross sections and branching fractions for narrow bulk gravitons and radions in warped extra-dimensional models having a mass in the range 750-3000 GeV. The resulting observed and expected upper limits on the non-resonant Higgs boson pair production cross section correspond to 179 and 114 times the standard model value, respectively, at 95% confidence level. The existence of anomalous Higgs boson couplings is also investigated and limits are set on the non-resonant Higgs boson pair production cross sections for representative coupling values.
Fiducial and differential cross sections of Higgs boson production measured in the four-lepton decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV  with the ATLAS detector. Measurements of fiducial and differential cross sections of Higgs boson production in the H → ZZ ^*→ 4ℓ decay channel are presented. The cross sections are determined within a fiducial phase space and corrected for detection efficiency and resolution effects. They are based on 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collision data, produced at √(s)=8 TeV centre-of-mass energy at the LHC and recorded by the ATLAS detector. The differential measurements are performed in bins of transverse momentum and rapidity of the four-lepton system, the invariant mass of the subleading lepton pair and the decay angle of the leading lepton pair with respect to the beam line in the four-lepton rest frame,  as well as the number of jets and the transverse momentum of the leading jet. The measured cross sections are compared to selected theoretical calculations of the Standard Model expectations. No significant deviation from any of the tested predictions is found.
Measurements of Higgs boson properties in the diphoton decay channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. Measurements of Higgs boson properties in the H→γγ decay channel are reported. The analysis is based on data collected by the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV during the 2016 LHC running period, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.6 fb^-1. Allowing the Higgs mass to float, the measurement yields a signal strength relative to the standard model prediction of 1.18^+0.17_-0.14=1.18^+0.12_-0.11 (stat) ^+0.09_-0.07 (syst) ^+0.07_-0.06 (theo), which is largely insensitive to the exact Higgs mass around 125 GeV. Signal strengths associated with the different Higgs boson production mechanisms, couplings to bosons and fermions, and effective couplings to photons and gluons are also measured.
Search for new phenomena in events with at least three photons collected in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Results of a search for new phenomena in events with at least three photons are reported. Data from proton–proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1, were collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The observed data are well described by the Standard Model. Limits at the 95% confidence level on new phenomena are presented based on the rate of events in an inclusive signal region and a restricted signal region targeting the rare decay Z→ 3γ, as well as di-photon and tri-photon resonance searches. For a Standard Model Higgs boson decaying to four photons via a pair of intermediate pseudoscalar particles (a), limits are found to be σ×BR(h → aa) ×BR(a →γγ)^2 < 10^-3σ_SM for 10 GeV < m_a < 62 GeV. Limits are also presented for Higgs boson-like scalars (H) for m_H > 125 GeV, and for a Z' decaying to three photons via Z' → a+γ→ 3γ. Additionally, the observed limit on the branching ratio of the Z boson decay to three photons is found to be BR(Z → 3γ) < 2.2 × 10^-6, a result five times stronger than the previous result from LEP.
Search for ttH production in the all-jet final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is presented for the associated production of a Higgs boson with a top quark pair in the all-jet final state. Events containing seven or more jets are selected from a sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. To separate the ttH signal from the irreducible tt+bb background, the analysis assigns leading order matrix element signal and background probability densities to each event. A likelihood-ratio statistic based on these probability densities is used to extract the signal. The results are provided in terms of an observed ttH signal strength relative to the standard model production cross section μ=σ/σ_SM, assuming a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV. The best fit value is μ̂ = 0.9 ± 0.7 (stat) ± 1.3 (syst) = 0.9 ± 1.5 (tot), and the observed and expected upper limits are, respectively, μ < 3.8 and < 3.1 at 95% confidence levels.
Combination of searches for heavy resonances decaying into bosonic and leptonic final states using 36 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Searches for new heavy resonances decaying into different pairings of W, Z, or Higgs bosons, as well as directly into leptons, are presented using a data sample corresponding to 36.1fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV collected during 2015 and 2016 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. Analyses selecting bosonic decay modes in the qqqq, νν qq, ℓν qq, ℓℓ qq, ℓνℓν, ℓℓνν, ℓνℓℓ, ℓℓℓℓ, qqbb, νν bb, ℓν bb, and ℓℓ bb final states are combined, searching for a narrow-width resonance. Likewise, analyses selecting the leptonic ℓν and ℓℓ final states are also combined. These two sets of analyses are then further combined. No significant deviation from the Standard Model predictions is observed. Three benchmark models are tested: a model predicting the existence of a new heavy scalar singlet, a simplified model predicting a heavy vector-boson triplet, and a bulk Randall-Sundrum model with a heavy spin-2 Kaluza-Klein excitation of the graviton. Cross-section limits are set at the 95% confidence level using an asymptotic approximation and are compared with predictions for the benchmark models. These limits are also expressed in terms of constraints on couplings of the heavy vector-boson triplet to quarks, leptons, and the Higgs boson. The data exclude a heavy vector-boson triplet with mass below 5.5 TeV in a weakly coupled scenario and 4.5 TeV in a strongly coupled scenario, as well as a Kaluza-Klein graviton with mass below 2.3 TeV.
Inclusive Σ^+ and Σ^0 Production in Hadronic Z Decays. We report on measurements of the inclusive production rate of Σ^+ and Σ^0 baryons in hadronic Z decays collected with the L3 detector at LEP. The Σ^+ baryons are detected through the decay Σ^+ → pπ^0, while the Σ^0 baryons are detected via the decay mode Σ^0 →Λγ. The average numbers of Σ^+ and Σ^0 per hadronic Z decay are measured to be: < N_Σ^+> + < N_Σ̅^+> = 0.114 ± 0.011_± 0.009_
Constraints on mediator-based dark matter and scalar dark energy models using √(s) = 13 TeV pp collision data collected by the ATLAS detector. Constraints on selected  mediator-based dark matter models and a scalar dark energy model using up to 37 fb^-1 √(s)= 13 TeV pp collision data collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC during 2015-2016 are summarised in this paper.  The results of  experimental searches in a variety of final states are interpreted in terms of a set of spin-1 and spin-0 single-mediator dark matter simplified models and a second set of models involving an extended Higgs sector plus an additional vector or pseudo-scalar mediator. The searches considered in this paper constrain spin-1 leptophobic and leptophilic mediators, spin-0 colour-neutral and colour-charged mediators and vector or pseudo-scalar mediators embedded in extended Higgs sector models. The results are also interpreted for the first time in terms of light scalar particles that could contribute to the accelerating expansion of the universe (dark energy).
Search for anomalous production of prompt same-sign lepton pairs and pair-produced doubly charged Higgs bosons with √(s) = 8 TeV pp collisions using the ATLAS detector. A low-background inclusive search for new physics in events with same-sign dileptons is presented. The search uses proton–proton collisions corresponding to 20.3 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity taken in 2012 at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Pairs of isolated leptons with the same electric charge and large transverse momenta of the type e^±e^±, e^±μ^±, and μ^±μ^± are selected and their invariant mass distribution is examined. No excess of events above the expected level of Standard Model background is found. The results are used to set upper limits on the cross sections for processes beyond the Standard Model. Limits are placed as a function of the dilepton invariant mass within a fiducial region corresponding to the signal event selection criteria. Exclusion limits are also derived for a specific model of doubly charged Higgs boson production.
Search for lepton flavour violating decays of a neutral heavy Higgs boson to μτ and eτ in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for lepton flavour violating decays of a neutral non-standard-model Higgs boson in the μτ and eτ decay modes is presented. The search is based on proton-proton collisions at a center of mass energy √(s)= 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 . The τ leptons are reconstructed in the leptonic and hadronic decay modes. No signal is observed in the mass range 200-900 GeV. At 95% confidence level, the observed (expected) upper limits on the production cross section multiplied by the branching fraction vary from 51.9 (57.4) fb to 1.6 (2.1) fb for the μτ and from 94.1 (91.6) fb to 2.3 (2.3) fb for the eτ decay modes.
Combination of searches for invisible Higgs boson decays with the ATLAS experiment. Dark matter particles, if sufficiently light, may be produced in decays of the Higgs boson. This Letter presents a statistical combination of searches for H→invisible decays where H is produced according to the Standard Model via vector boson fusion, Z(ℓℓ)H, and W/Z(had)H, all performed with the ATLAS detector using 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV at the LHC. In combination with the results at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV, an exclusion limit on the H→invisible branching ratio of  0.26 (0.17^+0.07_-0.05) at 95% confidence level is observed (expected).
Two Higgs Doublet Model and Model Independent Interpretation of Neutral Higgs Boson Searches. Searches for the neutral Higgs bosons h0 and A0, are used to obtain limits on the Type II Two Higgs Doublet Model (2HDM(II)) with no CP-violation in the Higgs sector and no additional particles besides the five Higgs bosons. The analysis combines approximately 170 pb-1 of data collected with the OPAL detector at sqrts 189 GeV with previous runs at sqrts mZ and sqrts 183 GeV. The searches are sensitive to the h0, A0 -> qq, gg, tau+tau- and h0 -> A0A0 decay modes of the Higgs bosons. For the first time, the 2HDM(II) parameter space is explored in a detailed scan, and new flavour independent analyses are applied to examine regions in which the neutral Higgs bosons decay predominantly into light quarks or gluons. Model-independent limits are also given.
Search for Charged Higgs Bosons in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s) = 189 GeV. A search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons is performed with the L3 detector at LEP using data collected at a centre-of-mass energy of 188.6 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 176.4 pb^-1. Higgs decays into a charm and a strange quark or into a tau lepton and its associated neutrino are considered. The observed events are consistent with the expectations from Standard Model background processes. A lower limit of 65.5 GeV on the charged Higgs mass is derived at 95% confidence level, independent of the decay branching ratio Br(H^±→τν).
Search for diphoton resonances in the mass range from 150 to 850 GeV in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. Results are presented of a search for heavy particles decaying into two photons. The analysis is based on a 19.7 fb^-1 sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s )= 8 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC. The diphoton mass spectrum from 150 to 850 GeV is used to search for an excess of events over the background. The search is extended to new resonances with natural widths of up to 10% of the mass value. No evidence for new particle production is observed and limits at 95% confidence level on the production cross section times branching fraction to diphotons are determined. These limits are interpreted in terms of two-Higgs-doublet model parameters.
Search for Higgs boson decays to a photon and a Z boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is reported for a neutral Higgs boson in the decay channel H → Zγ, Z → l^+ l^- (l = e,µ), using 4.5 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV, recorded by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The observed distribution of the invariant mass of the three final-state particles, m_llγ, is consistent with the Standard Model hypothesis in the investigated mass range of 120–150 GeV. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 125.5 GeV, the observed upper limit at the 95% confidence level is 11 times the Standard Model expectation. Upper limits are set on the cross section times branching ratio of a neutral Higgs boson with mass in the range 120–150 GeV between 0.13 and 0.5 pb for √(s) = 8 TeV at 95% confidence level.
The status of searches for the Standard Model Higgs boson at LEP.
Search for top-squark pairs decaying into Higgs or Z bosons in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for supersymmetry through the direct pair production of top squarks, with Higgs (H) or Z bosons in the decay chain, is performed using a data sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV collected in 2012 with the CMS detector at the LHC. The sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 inverse-femtobarns. The search is performed using a selection of events containing leptons and bottom-quark jets. No evidence for a significant excess of events over the standard model background prediction is observed. The results are interpreted in the context of simplified supersymmetric models with pair production of a heavier top-squark mass eigenstate stop_2 decaying to a lighter top-squark mass eigenstate stop_1 via either stop_2 → H stop_1 or stop_2 → Z stop_1, followed in both cases by stop_1 → top neutralino, where the neutralino is an undetected, stable, lightest supersymmetric particle. The interpretation is performed in the region where the mass difference between the stop_2 and stop_1 states is approximately equal to the top-quark mass, m_(stop_2) - m_(stop_1)   m_(top), which is not probed by searches for direct stop_1 squark pair production. The analysis excludes top squarks with masses m(stop_2) less than 575 GeV and m(stop_1) less than 400 GeV at a 95% confidence level.
Search for associated production of massive states decaying into two photons in e^+e^- annihilations at √(s) = 88 - 209 GeV. A search is performed for production of short-lived particles in e+e- -> XY, with X -> gamma gamma and Y -> ffbar, for scalar X and scalar or vector Y. Model-independent limits in the range of 25-60 femtobarns are presented on sigma (e+e- -> XY) x B(X -> ffbar) for centre-of-mass energies in the range 205-207 GeV. The data from all LEP centre-of-mass energies 88-209 GeV are also interpreted in the context of fermiophobic Higgs boson models, for which a lower mass limit of 105.5 GeV is obtained for a "benchmark" fermiophobic Higgs boson.
Searches for heavy ZZ and ZW resonances in the ℓℓ qq and νν qq final states in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This paper reports searches for heavy resonances decaying into ZZ or ZW using data from proton–proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=13 TeV. The data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1, were recorded with the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016 at the Large Hadron Collider. The searches are performed in final states in which one Z boson decays into either a pair of light charged leptons (electrons and muons) or a pair of neutrinos, and the associated W boson or the other Z boson decays hadronically. No evidence of the production of heavy resonances is observed. Upper bounds on the production cross sections of heavy resonances times their decay branching ratios to ZZ or ZW are derived in the mass range 300–5000 GeV within the context of Standard Model extensions with additional Higgs bosons, a heavy vector triplet or warped extra dimensions. Production through gluon–gluon fusion, Drell–Yan or vector-boson fusion are considered, depending on the assumed model.
Search for Charged Higgs Bosons at LEP. A search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons is performed with the L3 detector at LEP using data collected at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 629.4/pb. Decays into a charm and a strange quark or into a tau lepton and its neutrino are considered. No significant excess is observed and lower limits on the mass of the charged Higgs boson are derived at the 95% confidence level. They vary from 76.5 to 82.7GeV, as a function of the H->tv branching ratio.
Search for flavour-changing neutral current top quark decays t→ Hq in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for flavour-changing neutral current decays of a top quark to an up-type quark (q=u, c) and the Standard Model Higgs boson, where the Higgs boson decays to bb̅, is presented. The analysis searches for top quark pair events in which one top quark decays to Wb, with the W boson decaying leptonically, and the other top quark decays to Hq. The search is based on pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV recorded in 2012 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider and uses an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. Data are analysed in the lepton-plus-jets final state, characterised by an isolated electron or muon and at least four jets. The search exploits the high multiplicity of b-quark jets characteristic of signal events, and employs a likelihood discriminant that uses the kinematic differences between the signal and the background, which is dominated by tt̅→ WbWb decays. No significant excess of events above the background expectation is found, and observed (expected) 95% CL upper limits of 0.56% (0.42%) and 0.61% (0.64%) are derived for the t→ Hc and t→ Hu branching ratios respectively. The combination of this search with other ATLAS searches in the H →γγ and H→ WW^*, ττ decay modes significantly improves the sensitivity, yielding observed (expected) 95% CL upper limits on the t→ Hc and t→ Hu branching ratios of 0.46% (0.25%) and 0.45% (0.29%) respectively. The corresponding combined observed (expected) upper limits on the |λ_tcH| and |λ_tuH| couplings are 0.13 (0.10) and 0.13 (0.10) respectively. These are the most restrictive direct bounds on tqH interactions measured so far.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with W and Z bosons in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. A search for the Higgs boson produced in association with a W or Z boson in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV is performed with the CMS detector at the LHC using the full 2011 data sample, from an integrated luminosity of 5 inverse femtobarns. Higgs boson decay modes to tau tau and WW are explored by selecting events with three or four leptons in the final state. No excess above the standard model expectation is observed, resulting in exclusion limits on the product of Higgs associated production cross section and decay branching fraction for Higgs boson masses between 110 and 200 GeV in these channels. Combining these results with other CMS associated production searches using the same dataset in the H →γγ and H → bb̅ decay modes, the cross section for associated Higgs boson production 3.3 times the standard model expectation or larger is ruled out at the 95% confidence level for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV.
Search for a standard-model-like Higgs boson with a mass in the range 145 to 1000 GeV at the LHC. A search for a standard-model-like Higgs boson in the H → WW and H → ZZ decay channels is reported, for Higgs boson masses in the range 145 < m_H < 1000 GeV. The search is based upon proton-proton collision data samples corresponding to an integrated luminosity of up to 5.1 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 7 TeV and up to 5.3 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 8 TeV, recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The combined upper limits at 95% confidence level on products of the cross section and branching fractions exclude a standard-model-like Higgs boson in the range 145 < m_H < 710 GeV, thus extending the mass region excluded by CMS from 127-600 GeV up to 710 GeV.
Search for direct top squark pair production in events with a Higgs or Z boson, and missing transverse momentum in √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search for direct top squark pair production resulting in events with either a same-flavour opposite-sign dilepton pair with invariant mass compatible with a Z boson or a pair of jets compatible with a Standard Model (SM) Higgs boson (h) is presented. Requirements on additional leptons, jets, jets identified as originating from b-quarks, and missing transverse momentum are imposed to target the other decay products of the top squark pair. The analysis is performed using proton-proton collision data at √(s)=13 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC in 2015–2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. No excess is observed in the data with respect to the SM predictions. The results are interpreted in two sets of models. In the first set, direct production of pairs of lighter top squarks (t̃_1) with long decay chains involving Z or Higgs bosons is considered. The second set includes direct pair production of the heavier top squark pairs (t̃_2) decaying via t̃_2 → Z t̃_1 or t̃_2 → h t̃_1. The results exclude at 95% confidence level t̃_2 and t̃_1 masses up to about 800 GeV, extending the exclusion region of supersymmetric parameter space covered by previous LHC searches.
Search for long-lived particles using displaced jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. An inclusive search is presented for long-lived particles using displaced jets. The search uses a data sample collected with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC in 2017 and 2018, from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The results of this search are combined with those of a previous search using a data sample collected with the CMS detector in 2016, yielding a total integrated luminosity of 132 fb^-1. The analysis searches for the distinctive topology of displaced tracks and displaced vertices associated with a dijet system. For a simplified model, where pair-produced long-lived neutral particles decay into quark-antiquark pairs, pair production cross sections larger than 0.07 fb are excluded at 95% confidence level (CL) for long-lived particle masses larger than 500 GeV and mean proper decay lengths between 2 and 250 mm. For a model where the standard model-like Higgs boson decays to two long-lived scalar particles that each decays to a quark-antiquark pair, branching fractions larger than 1% are excluded at 95% CL for mean proper decay lengths between 1 mm and 340 mm. A group of supersymmetric models with pair-produced long-lived gluinos or top squarks decaying into various final-state topologies containing displaced jets is also tested. Gluino masses up to 2500 GeV and top squark masses up to 1600 GeV are excluded at 95% CL for mean proper decay lengths between 3 and 300 mm. The highest lower bounds on mass reach 2600 GeV for long-lived gluinos and 1800 GeV for long-lived top squarks. These are the most stringent limits to date on these models.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the decay channel H → ZZ^(*)→ 4l with 4.8 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV with ATLAS. This Letter presents a search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the decay channel H->ZZ(*)->l+l-l'+l'-, where l,l'=e or mu, using proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s)=7 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.8 fb^-1. The four-lepton mass distribution is compared with Standard Model background expectations to derive upper limits on the cross section of a Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass between 110 GeV and 600 GeV which exclude the mass ranges 134-156 GeV, 182-233 GeV, 256-265 GeV and 266-415 GeV at the 95% confidence level. The largest upward deviations from the background-only hypothesis are observed for Higgs boson masses of 125, 244 and 500 GeV with local significances of 2.1, 2.2 and 2.1 standard deviations, respectively. Once the look-elsewhere effect is considered, none of these excesses are significant.
Observation of Higgs boson decay to bottom quarks. The observation of the standard model (SM) Higgs boson decay to a pair of bottom quarks is presented. The main contribution to this result is from processes in which Higgs bosons are produced in association with a W or Z boson (VH), and are searched for in final states including 0, 1, or 2 charged leptons and two identified bottom quark jets. The results from the measurement of these processes in a data sample recorded by the CMS experiment in 2017, comprising 41.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, are described. When combined with previous VH measurements using data collected at √(s)= 7, 8, and 13 TeV, an excess of events is observed at m_H = 125.09 GeV with a significance of 4.8 standard deviations, where the expectation for the SM Higgs boson is 4.9. The corresponding measured signal strength is 1.01 ± 0.22. The combination of this result with searches by the CMS experiment for H →bb in other production processes yields an observed (expected) significance of 5.6 (5.5) standard deviations and a signal strength of 1.04 ± 0.20.
Search for a W' boson decaying to a vector-like quark and a top or bottom quark in the all-jets final state. A search for a heavy W' resonance decaying to one B or T vector-like quark and a top or bottom quark, respectively, is presented. The search uses proton-proton collision data collected in 2016 with the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 at √(s) = 13 TeV. Both decay channels result in a final state with a top quark, a Higgs boson, and a b quark, each produced with significant energy. The all-hadronic decays of both the Higgs boson and the top quark are considered. The final-state jets, some of which correspond to merged decay products of a boosted top quark and a Higgs boson, are selected using jet substructure techniques, which help to suppress standard model backgrounds. A W' boson signal would appear as a narrow peak in the invariant mass distribution of these jets. No significant deviation in data with respect to the standard model background predictions is observed. Cross section upper limits on W' boson production in the top quark, Higgs boson, and b quark decay mode are set as a function of the W' mass, for several vector-like quark mass hypotheses. These are the first limits for W' boson production in this decay channel, and cover a range of 0.01 to 0.43 pb in the W' mass range between 1.5 and 4.0 TeV.
Measurement of differential cross sections for Higgs boson production in the diphoton decay channel in pp collisions at √(s)= 8 TeV. A measurement is presented of differential cross sections for the Higgs boson (H) production in pp collisions at √(s)= 8 TeV. The analysis exploits the H→γγ decay in data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The cross section is measured as a function of the kinematic properties of the diphoton system and of the associated jets. Results corrected for detector effects are compared with predictions at next-to-leading order and next-to-next-to-leading order in perturbative quantum chromodynamics, as well as with predictions beyond the standard model.For isolated photons with pseudorapidities | η | lower than 2.5, and with the photon of largest and next-to-largest transverse momentum (p_T^γ) divided by the diphoton mass m_γγ satisfying the respective conditions of p_T^γ/m_γγ larger than 1/3 and 1/4, the total fiducial cross section is 32 ± 10 fb.
Precision Luminosity for Z^0 Lineshape Measurements with a Silicon-Tungsten Calorimeter. The measurement of small-angle Bhabha scattering is used to determine the luminosity at the OPAL interaction point for the LEP I data recorded between 1993 and 1995. The measurement is based on the OPAL Silicon-Tungsten Luminometer which is composed of two calorimeters encircling the LEP beam pipe, on opposite sides of the interaction point. The luminometer detects electrons from small-angle Bhabha scattering at angles between 25 and 58mrad. At LEP center-of-mass energies around the Z0, about half of all Bhabha electrons entering the detector fall within a 79nb fiducial acceptance region. The electromagnetic showers generated in the stack of 1 radiation length tungsten absorber plates are sampled by 608 silicon detectors with 38,912 radial pads of 2.5mm width.The fine segmentation of the detector, combined with the precise knowledge of its physical dimensions, allows the trajectories of incoming 45GeV electrons or photons to be determined with a total systematic error of less than 7microns. We have quantified all significant sources of systematic experimental error in the luminosity determination by direct physical measurement. All measured properites of the luminosity event sample are found to be in agreement with current theoretical expectations. The total systematic measurement uncertainty is 3.4x10^-4, significantly below the theoretical error of 5.4x10^-4 currently assigned to the QED calculation of the Bhabha acceptance, and contributes negligibly to the total uncertainty in the OPAL measurement of Gammainvisible/Gammal+l-, a quantity of basic physical interest which depends crucially on the luminosity measurement.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons decaying to tau pairs in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. A search for neutral Higgs bosons decaying to tau pairs at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV is performed using a dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.6 inverse femtobarns recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The search is sensitive to both the standard model Higgs boson and to the neutral Higgs bosons predicted by the minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model (MSSM). No excess of events is observed in the tau-pair invariant-mass spectrum. For a standard model Higgs boson in the mass range of 110-145 GeV upper limits at 95% confidence level (CL) on the production cross section are determined. We exclude a Higgs boson with m(H)=115 GeV with a production cross section 3.2 times of that predicted by the standard model. In the MSSM, upper limits on the neutral Higgs boson production cross section times branching fraction to tau pairs, as a function of the pseudoscalar Higgs boson mass, m(A), sets stringent new bounds in the parameter space, excluding at 95% CL values of tan(beta) as low as 7.1 at m(A) = 160 GeV.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson decay to μ^+μ^- with the ATLAS detector. A search is reported for Higgs boson decay to μ^+μ^- using data with an integrated luminosity of 24.8 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √(s)=7 and 8 TeV at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The observed dimuon invariant mass distribution is consistent with the Standard Model background-only hypothesis in the 120–150 GeV search range. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 125.5 GeV, the observed (expected) upper limit at the 95% confidence level is 7.0 (7.2) times the Standard Model expectation. This corresponds to an upper limit on the branching ratio BR(H →μ^+μ^-) of 1.5×10^-3.
A search for a doubly-charged Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for a doubly-charged Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV is presented. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 inverse femtobarns, collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The search is performed using events with three or more isolated charged leptons of any flavor, giving sensitivity to the decays of pair-produced triplet components Φ^++Φ^–, and Φ^++Φ^- from associated production. No excess is observed compared to the background prediction, and upper limits at the 95% confidence level are set on the Φ^++ production cross section, under specific assumptions on its branching fractions. Lower bounds on the Φ^++ mass are reported, providing significantly more stringent constraints than previously published limits.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies from 130 to 172 GeV. The data collected at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 130 to 172 GeV by ALEPH at LEP, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 27.5 pb-1, are analysed in a search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons H+-. Three analyses are employed to select the tau nu tau nu, tau nu c s and c s c s final states. No evidence for a signal is found. Mass limits are set as a function of the branching fraction BR for H+- -> tau nu. Charged Higgs bosons with masses below 52 GeV are excluded at 95% C.L. independently of BR, thus significantly improving on existing mass limits from LEP1 searches.
Search for lepton-flavour-violating decays of the Higgs and Z bosons with the ATLAS detector. Direct searches for lepton flavour violation in decays of the Higgs and Z bosons with the ATLAS detector at the LHC are presented. The following three decays are considered: H→ eτ, H→μτ, and Z→μτ. The searches are based on the data sample of proton–proton collisions collected by the ATLAS detector corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV. No significant excess is observed, and upper limits on the lepton-flavour-violating branching ratios are set at the 95% confidence level: Br(H→ eτ) < 1.04%, Br(H→μτ) < 1.43%, and Br(Z→μτ) < 1.69 × 10^-5.
Observation of electroweak production of two jets and a Z-boson pair  with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Electroweak symmetry breaking explains the origin of the masses of elementary particles via their interactions with the Higgs field. Besides the measurements of the Higgs boson properties, the study of the scattering of massive vector bosons (with spin one) at the Large Hadron Collider allows to probe the nature of electroweak symmetry breaking with an unprecedented sensitivity. Among all processes related to vector-boson scattering, the electroweak production of two jets and a Z-boson pair is a rare and important one. This article reports on the first observation of this process using proton-proton collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector. Two different final states originating from the decays of the Z-boson pair, one containing four charged leptons and the other containing two charged leptons and two neutrinos, are considered. The hypothesis of no electroweak production is rejected with a statistical significance of 5.5 σ, and the measured cross-section for electroweak production is consistent with the Standard Model prediction. In addition, cross-sections for inclusive production of a Z-boson pair and two jets are reported for the two final states.
Search for Doubly Charged Higgs Bosons with the OPAL detector at LEP. A search for pair-produced doubly charged Higgs bosons has been performed using data samples corresponding to an integrated luminosity of about 614 pb-1 collected with the OPAL detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies between 189GeV and 209GeV. No evidence for a signal has been observed. A mass limit of 98.5GeV/c2 at the 95% confidence level has been set for the doubly charged Higgs particle in left-right symmetric models. This is the first search for doubly charged Higgs bosons at centre-of-mass energies larger than 91GeV.
Precise determination of the mass of the Higgs boson and tests of compatibility of its couplings with the standard model predictions using proton collisions at 7 and 8 TeV. Properties of the Higgs boson with mass near 125 GeV are measured in proton-proton collisions with the CMS experiment at the LHC. Comprehensive sets of production and decay measurements are combined. The decay channels include γγ, ZZ, WW, ττ, bb, and μμ pairs. The data samples were collected in 2011 and 2012 and correspond to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1 fb^-1 at 7 TeV and up to 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV. From the high-resolution γγ and ZZ channels, the mass of the Higgs boson is determined to be m_H = 125.02 ^+0.26_-0.27 (stat) ^+0.14 _-0.15 (syst)  GeV. For this mass value, the event yields obtained in the different analyses tagging specific decay channels and production mechanisms are consistent with those expected for the standard model Higgs boson. The combined best-fit signal relative to the standard model expectation is 1.00 ± 0.09 (stat) ^+0.08_-0.07  (theo) ± 0.07 (syst) at the measured mass. The couplings of the Higgs boson are probed for deviations in magnitude from the standard model predictions in multiple ways, including searches for invisible and undetected decays. No significant deviations are found.
Search for a heavy resonance decaying to a top quark and a vector-like top quark in the lepton+jets final state in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for a heavy spin-1 resonance Z' decaying to a top quark and a vector-like top quark partner T in the lepton+jets final state. The search is performed using a data set of pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 as recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC in the year 2016. The analysis is optimised for final states arising from the T decay modes to a top quark and a Higgs or Z boson (T → Ht, Zt). The event selection makes use of resolved and merged top quark decay products, as well as decays of boosted Higgs bosons and Z and W bosons using jet substructure techniques. No significant deviation from the standard model background expectation is observed. Exclusion limits on the product of the cross section and branching fraction for Z' → ttT, T → Ht, Zt, Wb are presented for various combinations of the Z' resonance mass and the vector-like T quark mass. These results represent the most stringent limits to date for the decay mode Z' → tT → tHt. In a benchmark model with extra dimensions, invoking a heavy spin-1 resonance G^*, masses of the G^* between 1.5 and 2.3 TeV and between 2.0 and 2.4 TeV are excluded for T masses of 1.2 and 1.5 TeV, respectively.
Limits on Higgs boson masses from combining the data of the four LEP experiments at √(s)≤ 183 GeV.
Search for dark matter produced in association with a dark Higgs boson decaying into W^± W^∓ or ZZ in fully hadronic final states from √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions recorded with the ATLAS detector. Several extensions of the Standard Model predict the production of dark matter particles at the LHC. An uncharted signature of dark matter particles produced in association with VV=W^± W^∓ or ZZ pairs from a decay of a dark Higgs boson s is searched for using 139 fb^-1 of pp collisions recorded by the ATLAS detector at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The s→ V(qq̅)V(qq̅) decays are reconstructed with a novel technique aimed at resolving the dense topology from boosted VV pairs using jets in the calorimeter and tracking information. Dark Higgs scenarios with m_s > 160 GeV are excluded.
Constraints on anomalous Higgs boson couplings using production and decay information in the four-lepton final state. A search is performed for anomalous interactions of the recently discovered Higgs boson using matrix element techniques with the information from its decay to four leptons and from associated Higgs boson production with two quark jets in either vector boson fusion or associated production with a vector boson. The data were recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 38.6 inverse femtobarns. These data are combined with the data collected at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 and 19.7 inverse femtobarns, respectively. All observations are consistent with the expectations for the standard model Higgs boson.
Search for pair production of heavy top-like quarks decaying to a high-p_T W boson and a b quark in the lepton plus jets final state at √(s)=7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for production of a heavy up-type quark (t') together with its antiparticle, assuming a significant branching ratio for subsequent decay into a W boson and a b quark. The search is based on 4.7 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV recorded in 2011 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. Data are analyzed in the lepton+jets final state, characterized by a high-transverse-momentum isolated electron or muon, large missing transverse momentum and at least three jets. The analysis strategy relies on the substantial boost of the W bosons in the t't'bar signal when mt'>=400 GeV. No significant excess of events above the Standard Model expectation is observed and the result of the search is interpreted in the context of fourth-generation and vector-like quark models. Under the assumption of a branching ratio BR(t'->Wb)=1, a fourth-generation t' quark with mass lower than 656 GeV is excluded at 95% confidence level. In addition, in light of the recent discovery of a new boson of mass  126 GeV at the LHC, upper limits are derived in the two-dimensional plane of BR(t'->Wb) versus BR(t'->Ht), where H is the Standard Model Higgs boson, for vector-like quarks of various masses.
Precision electroweak measurements on the Z resonance. We report on the final electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the Z resonance by the experiments operating at the electron-positron colliders SLC and LEP. The data consist of 17 million Z decays accumulated by the ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL experiments at LEP, and 600 thousand Z decays by the SLD experiment using a polarised beam at SLC. The measurements include cross-sections, forward-backward asymmetries and polarised asymmetries. The mass and width of the Z boson, and , and its couplings to fermions, for example the ρ parameter and the effective electroweak mixing angle, are precisely measured. The number of light neutrino species is determined to be 2.9840+/-0.0082. The results are compared to the predictions of the Standard Model. Electroweak radiative corrections beyond the running of the QED and QCD coupling constants are observed with a significance of five standard deviations, and in agreement with the Standard Model. Of the many Z-pole measurements, the forward-backward asymmetry in b-quark production shows the largest difference with respect to its Standard Model expectation, at the level of 2.8 standard deviations. Through radiative corrections evaluated in the framework of the Standard Model, the masses of the top quark and the W Boson are predicted. These indirect constraints are compared to the direct measurements, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model. Using in addition the direct measurements of and , the mass of the as yet unobserved Standard Model Higgs boson is predicted.
Search for the neutral Higgs bosons of the MSSM in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) from 130 to 172 GeV. The process e+e- –> h A is used to search for the Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM), in the bbbb and tautaubb final states. The search is performed in the data collected by the ALEPH experiment at LEP, at centre-of-mass energies between 130 and 172 GeV and with a total luminosity of 27.2 pb-1. No candidate events are found in either of the final states, in agreement with the expected background of 0.91 events from all Standard Model processes. Combined with searches for e+e- –> hZ, this results in a 95% C.L. lower limit on the masses of both h and A of 62.5 GeV/c2, for tan(beta) > 1.
Search for a Standard Model Higgs boson in the H → ZZ → l^+l^-νν̅ decay channel using 4.7 fb^-1 of √(s) = 7 TeV data with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy Standard Model Higgs boson decaying via H → ZZ → l^+l^-νν̅, where l represents electrons or muons, is presented. It is based on proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV, collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC during 2011 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb^-1. The data agree with the expected Standard Model backgrounds. Upper limits on the Higgs boson production cross section are derived for Higgs boson masses between 200 GeV and 600 GeV and the production of a Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass in the range 319 - 558 GeV is excluded at the 95% confidence level.
Identification of boosted Higgs bosons decaying into b-quark pairs with the ATLAS detector at 13 TeV. This paper describes a study of techniques for identifying Higgs bosons at high transverse momenta decaying into bottom-quark pairs, H → bb̅, for proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy √(s)=13 TeV. These decays are reconstructed from calorimeter jets found with the anti-k_t R = 1.0 jet algorithm. To tag Higgs bosons, a combination of requirements is used: b-tagging of R = 0.2 track-jets matched to the large-R calorimeter jet, and requirements on the jet mass and other jet substructure variables. The Higgs boson tagging efficiency and corresponding multijet and hadronic top-quark background rejections are evaluated using Monte Carlo simulation. Several benchmark tagging selections are defined for different signal efficiency targets. The modelling of the relevant input distributions used to tag Higgs bosons is studied in 36 fb^-1 of data collected in 2015 and 2016 using g→ bb̅ and Z(→ bb̅)γ event selections in data. Both processes are found to be well modelled within the statistical and systematic uncertainties.
Search for a light Higgs boson decaying to long-lived weakly-interacting particles in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the decay of a light Higgs (120 - 140 GeV) to a pair of weakly-interacting, long-lived particles in 1.94 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at sqrts = 7 TeV recorded in 2011 by the ATLAS detector is presented. The search strategy requires that both long-lived particles decay inside the muon spectrometer. No excess of events is observed above the expected background and limits on the Higgs boson production times branching ratio to weakly-interacting, long-lived particles are derived as a function of the particle proper decay length.
Search for an invisibly decaying Higgs boson in e^+e^- collisions at 189 GeV. The data collected in 1998 by ALEPH at LEP at a centre-of-mass energy of 188.6 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 176.2 pb-1, are analysed to search for invisible decays of a Higgs boson produced in the reaction e+e- -> hZ. The number of events found in the data and their properties are in agreement with the Standard Model expectation. This search results in an improved 95% C.L. lower limit on the Higgs boson mass of 95.4 GeV/c2, assuming it decays totally invisibly and for a production cross section equal to that of the Standard Model.
Measurement of the Z Resonance Parameters at LEP. The properties of the Z resonance are measured from the analysis of 4.5 million Z decays into fermion pairs collected with the detector at L EP. The data are consistent with lepton universality. The resonance parameters are measured to be =(91.1885 ± 0.0031), = (2.4951 ± 0.0043), =(41.559 ± 0.058) nb and, combining the three lepton flavours = 20.725± 0.039. The corresponding number of light neutrino species is N_ν=2.983±0.013 and the strong coupling constant is α_s() = 0.114±0.004± 0.002_QCD + 0.005 log_10[/150 GeV/c^2 ]. The lepton pair forward-backward asymmetry is measured to be =0.0173 ± 0.0016 from which the effective weak mixing angle is derived: = 0.23089± 0.00089. The measurement of the leptonic width =84.02±0.15 MeV leads to a determination of the effective ρ parameter ρ_ eff^ lept = 1.0064 ± 0.0018. The data support the Standard Model and favour a light Higgs.
Measurement of the properties of a Higgs boson in the four-lepton final state. The properties of a Higgs boson candidate are measured in the H → ZZ → 4l decay channel, with l=e,μ, using data from pp collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 5.1 inverse femtobarns at center-of-mass energy of √(s)=7 TeV and 19.7 inverse femtobarns at √(s)=8 TeV, recorded with the CMS detector at the LHC. The new boson is observed as a narrow resonance with a local significance of 6.8 standard deviations, a measured mass of 125.6±0.4 (stat.) ±0.2 (syst.) GeV, and a total width less than 3.4 GeV at a 95% confidence level. The production cross section of the new boson times the branching fraction to four leptons is measured to be 0.93^+0.26_-0.23 (stat.)^+0.13_-0.09 (syst.) times that predicted by the standard model. Its spin-parity properties are found to be consistent with the expectations for the standard model Higgs boson. The hypotheses of a pseudoscalar and all tested spin-one boson hypotheses are excluded at a 99% confidence level or higher. All tested spin-two boson hypotheses are excluded at a 95% confidence level or higher.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅WW^∗ decay mode at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅WW^* decay mode is performed in the bb̅lν qq final state using 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No evidence of events beyond the background expectation is found. Upper limits on the non-resonant pp→ HH production cross section of 10 pb and on the resonant production cross section as a function of the HH invariant mass are obtained. Resonant production limits are set for scalar and spin-2 graviton hypotheses in the mass range 500 to 3000 GeV.
Mass limit for the lightest neutralino. Indirect limits on the mass of the lightest neutralino are derived from the results of searches for charginos, neutralinos, and sleptons performed with data taken by the ALEPH Collaboration at centre-of-mass energies near the Z peak and at 130 and 136 GeV. Within the context of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model and when M_ν̃≥ 200 GeV/c 2, the bound M_χ>12.8 GeV/c 2 at the 95% confidence level applies for any tanβ. The impact of lighter sneutrinos is presented in the framework of SUSY grand unified theories; a massless neutralino is allowed only for a narrow range of tanβ, μ, and the scalar mass parameter m_0. Finally, by including Higgs mass constraints and requiring that radiative electroweak symmetry breaking occur, more stringent bounds on M_χ as a function of tanβ are derived.
Search for Higgs boson decays into a pair of light bosons in the bbμμ final state in pp collision at √(s) =13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for decays of the Higgs boson into a pair of new spin-zero particles, H → aa,  where the a-bosons decay into a b-quark pair and muon pair, is presented. The search uses 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s)=13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in 2015 and 2016.  No significant deviation from the Standard Model prediction is observed.  Upper limits at  95% confidence level are placed on the branching ratio (σ_H / σ_SM) × B(H→ aa→ bbμμ), ranging from 2× 10^-4 to 10^-3 in the a-boson mass range of 20-60 GeV. Model-independent limits are set on the visible production cross-section times the branching ratio to the bbμμ final state for new physics, σ_vis(X) × B(X→ bbμμ), ranging from 0.1 fb to 0.73 fb for m_μμ between 18 and 62 GeV.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons in Z^0 decays using the OPAL detector at LEP.
Search for heavy resonances decaying to two Higgs bosons in final states containing four b quarks. A search is presented for narrow heavy resonances X decaying into pairs of Higgs bosons (H) in proton-proton collisions collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at √(s) = 8 TeV. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The search considers HH resonances with masses between 1 and 3 TeV, having final states of two b quark pairs. Each Higgs boson is produced with large momentum, and the hadronization products of the pair of b quarks can usually be reconstructed as single large jets. The background from multijet and t t̅ events is significantly reduced by applying requirements related to the flavor of the jet, its mass, and its substructure. The signal would be identified as a peak on top of the dijet invariant mass spectrum of the remaining background events. No evidence is observed for such a signal. Upper limits obtained at 95% confidence level for the product of the production cross section and branching fraction σ(  gg → X  ) ℬ(  X → HH → b b̅ b b̅) range from 10 to 1.5 fb for the mass of X from 1.15 to 2.0 TeV, significantly extending previous searches. For a warped extra dimension theory with a mass scale Λ_R = 1 TeV, the data exclude radion scalar masses between 1.15 and 1.55 TeV.
Determination of the off-shell Higgs boson signal strength in the high-mass ZZ and WW final states with the ATLAS detector. Measurements of the ZZ and WW final states in the mass range above the 2m_Z and 2m_W thresholds provide a unique opportunity to measure the off-shell coupling strength of the Higgs boson. This paper presents a determination of the off-shell Higgs boson event yields normalised to the Standard Model prediction (signal strength) in the ZZ → 4ℓ, ZZ→ 2ℓ2ν and WW→ eνμν final states. The result is based on pp collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 at a collision energy of √(s)=8 TeV. Using the CL_s method, the observed 95% confidence level (CL) upper limit on the off-shell signal strength is in the range 5.1–8.6, with an expected range of 6.7–11.0. In each case the range is determined by varying the unknown gg→ ZZ and gg→ WW background K-factor from higher-order QCD corrections between half and twice the value of the known signal K-factor. Assuming the relevant Higgs boson couplings are independent of the energy scale of the Higgs production, a combination with the on-shell measurements yields an observed (expected) 95% CL upper limit on Γ_H/Γ_H^SM in the range 4.5–7.5 (6.5–11.2) using the same variations of the background K-factor. Assuming that the unknown gg→ VV background K-factor is equal to the signal K-factor, this translates into an observed (expected) 95% CL upper limit on the Higgs boson total width of 22.7 (33.0) MeV.
Search for Charged Higgs Bosons in e^+e^- Collisions at Centre-of-Mass Energies up to 202 GeV. A search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons is performed with the L3 detector at LEP using data collected at centre-of-mass energies between 192 and 202 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 233.2 pb^-1. Decays into a charm and a strange quark or into a tau lepton and its neutrino are considered. The observed events are consistent with the expectations from Standard Model background processes. Including data taken at lower centre-of-mass energies, lower limits on the charged Higgs mass are derived at the 95% confidence level. They vary from 67.4 to 79.9GeV as a function of the H^+/- –> tau nu branching ratio.
Search for long-lived neutral particles decaying into lepton jets in proton–proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Several models of physics beyond the Standard Model predict neutral particles that decay into final states consisting of collimated jets of light leptons and hadrons (so-called "lepton jets"). These particles can also be long-lived with decay length comparable to, or even larger than, the LHC detectors' linear dimensions. This paper presents the results of a search for lepton jets in proton–proton collisions at the centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV in a sample of 20.3 fb^-1 collected during 2012 with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Limits on models predicting Higgs boson decays to neutral long-lived lepton jets are derived as a function of the particle's proper decay length.
Search for Higgs Bosons and Other Massive States decaying into two Photons in e^+e^- Collisions at 189 GeV. A search is described for the generic process e+e- to X Y, where X is a neutral heavy scalar boson decaying into a pair of photons, and Y is a neutral heavy boson (scalar or vector) decaying into a fermion pair. The search is motivated mainly by the cases where either X, or both X and Y, are Higgs bosons. In particular, we investigate the case where X is the Standard Model Higgs boson and Y the Z0 boson. Other models with enhanced Higgs boson decay couplings to photon pairs are also considered. The present search combines the data set collected by the OPAL collaboration at 189 GeV collider energy, having an integrated luminosity of 182.6pb-1, with data samples collected at lower energies. The search results have been used to put 95% confidence level bounds, as functions of the mass of X, on the product of the cross-section and the relevant branching ratios, both in a model independent manner and for the particular models considered.
Search for direct pair production of a chargino and a neutralino decaying to the 125 GeV Higgs boson in √(s) = 8 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for the direct pair production of a chargino and a neutralino pp→χ̃^±_1χ̃^0_2, where the chargino decays to the lightest neutralino and the W boson, χ̃^±_1 →χ̃^0_1 (W^±→ℓ^±ν), while the neutralino decays to the lightest neutralino and the 125 GeV Higgs boson, χ̃^0_2 →χ̃^0_1 (h→ bb/γγ/ℓ^±ν qq). The final states considered for the search have large missing transverse momentum, an isolated electron or muon, and one of the following: either two jets identified as originating from bottom quarks, or two photons, or a second electron or muon with the same electric charge. The analysis is based on 20.3 fb^-1 of √(s)=8 TeV proton-proton collision data delivered by the Large Hadron Collider and recorded with the ATLAS detector. Observations are consistent with the Standard Model expectations, and limits are set in the context of a simplified supersymmetric model.
A measurement of the Higgs boson mass in the diphoton decay channel. A measurement of the mass of the Higgs boson in the diphoton decay channel is presented. This analysis is based on 35.9 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data collected during the 2016 LHC running period, with the CMS detector at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. A refined detector calibration and new analysis techniques have been used to improve the precision of this measurement. The Higgs boson mass is measured to be m_H = 125.78 ± 0.26 GeV. This is combined with a measurement of m_H already performed in the H → ZZ → 4 ℓ decay channel using the same data set, giving m_H = 125.46 ± 0.16 GeV. This result, when further combined with an earlier measurement of m_H using data collected in 2011 and 2012 with the CMS detector, gives a value for the Higgs boson mass of m_H = 125.38 ± 0.14 GeV. This is currently the most precise measurement of the mass of the Higgs boson.
Search for direct pair production of a chargino and a neutralino decaying to the 125 GeV Higgs boson in √(s) = 8 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for the direct pair production of a chargino and a neutralino pp→χ̃^±_1χ̃^0_2, where the chargino decays to the lightest neutralino and the W boson, χ̃^±_1 →χ̃^0_1 (W^±→ℓ^±ν), while the neutralino decays to the lightest neutralino and the 125 GeV Higgs boson, χ̃^0_2 →χ̃^0_1 (h→ bb/γγ/ℓ^±ν qq). The final states considered for the search have large missing transverse momentum, an isolated electron or muon, and one of the following: either two jets identified as originating from bottom quarks, or two photons, or a second electron or muon with the same electric charge. The analysis is based on 20.3 fb^-1 of √(s)=8 TeV proton-proton collision data delivered by the Large Hadron Collider and recorded with the ATLAS detector. Observations are consistent with the Standard Model expectations, and limits are set in the context of a simplified supersymmetric model.
Search for pair production of higgsinos in final states with at least three b-tagged jets  in √(s) = 13 TeV pp collisions using the ATLAS detector. A search for pair production of the supersymmetric partners of the Higgs boson (higgsinos H̃) in gauge-mediated scenarios is reported. Each higgsino is assumed to decay to a Higgs boson and a gravitino. Two complementary analyses, targeting high- and low-mass signals, are performed to maximize sensitivity. The two analyses utilize LHC pp collision data at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV, the former with an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 and the latter with 24.3 fb^-1, collected with the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016. The search is performed in events containing missing transverse momentum and several energetic jets, at least three of which must be identified as b-quark jets. No significant excess is found above the predicted background. Limits on the cross-section are set as a function of the mass of the H̃ in simplified models assuming production via mass-degenerate higgsinos decaying to a Higgs boson and a gravitino. Higgsinos with masses between 130 and 230 GeV and between 290 and 880 GeV are excluded at the 95% confidence level.  Interpretations of the limits in terms of the branching ratio of the higgsino to a Z boson or a Higgs boson are also presented, and a 45% branching ratio to a Higgs boson is excluded for m_H̃≈ 400 GeV.
Search for a Higgs Boson Decaying to Weak Boson Pairs at LEP. A Higgs particle produced in association with a Z boson and decaying into weak boson pairs is searched for in 336.4 1/pb of data collected by the L3 experiment at LEP at centre-of-mass energies from 200 to 209 GeV. Limits on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay into two weak bosons as a function of the Higgs mass are derived. These results are combined with the L3 search for a Higgs boson decaying to photon pairs. A Higgs produced with a Standard Model e+e- –> Zh cross section and decaying only into electroweak boson pairs is excluded at 95% CL for a mass below 107 GeV.
Identification of heavy, energetic, hadronically decaying particles using machine-learning techniques. Machine-learning (ML) techniques are explored to identify and classify hadronic decays of highly Lorentz-boosted W/Z/Higgs bosons and top quarks. Techniques without ML have also been evaluated and are included for comparison. The identification performances of a variety of algorithms are characterized in simulated events and directly compared with data. The algorithms are validated using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Systematic uncertainties are assessed by comparing the results obtained using simulation and collision data. The new techniques studied in this paper provide significant performance improvements over non-ML techniques, reducing the background rate by up to an order of magnitude at the same signal efficiency.
A search for doubly-charged Higgs production in Z^0 decays.
Search for dark photons in Higgs boson production via vector boson fusion in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for a Higgs boson that is produced via vector boson fusion and that decays to an undetected particle and an isolated photon. The search is performed by the CMS Collaboration at the LHC, using a data set corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 130 fb^-1, recorded at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV in 2016-2018. No significant excess of events above the expectation from the standard model background is found. The results are interpreted in the context of a theoretical model in which the undetected particle is a massless dark photon. An upper limit is set on the product of the cross section for production via vector boson fusion and the branching fraction for such a Higgs boson decay, as a function of the Higgs boson mass. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, assuming the standard model production rates, the observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper limit on the branching fraction is 3.4 (2.7)%. This is the first search for such decays in the vector boson fusion channel.
Search for charginos and neutralinos in e^+ e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies near 183 GeV and constraints on the MSSM parameter space. Searches for charginos and neutralinos are performed with the data collected by the ALEPH detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies near 183 GeV. In these searches, it is assumed that R-parity is conserved and that the lightest neutralino is the LSP. No evidence of a signal is observed in the 57 pb-1 accumulated, which excludes chargino and associated neutralino production up to the kinematic limit over large regions of the MSSM parameter space. Under the assumptions of common gaugino and common sfermion masses at the unification scale, the interplay between the chargino, neutralino and slepton exclusions allows a lower limit of 27 GeV/c2 to be set on the mass of the lightest neutralino. Tighter constraints on the MSSM parameter space are obtained using in addition exclusions in the Higgs sector. Finally, the results are interpreted within the framework of minimal supergravity.
Search for anomalous production of prompt like-sign muon pairs and constraints on physics beyond the Standard Model with the ATLAS detector. An inclusive search for anomalous production of two prompt, isolated muons with the same electric charge is presented. The search is performed in a data sample corresponding to 1.6 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity collected in 2011 at sqrt(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Muon pairs are selected by requiring two isolated muons of the same electric charge with pT > 20 GeV and abs(eta) < 2.5. Minimal requirements are placed on the rest of the event activity. The distribution of the invariant mass of the muon pair m(mumu) is found to agree well with the background expectation. Upper limits on the cross section for anomalous production of two muons with the same electric charge are placed as a function of m(mumu) within a fiducial region defined by the event selection. The fiducial cross- section limit constrains the like-sign top-quark pair-production cross section to be below 3.7 pb at 95% confidence level. The data are also analyzed to search for a narrow like-sign dimuon resonance as predicted for e.g. doubly charged Higgs bosons (H++/H–). Assuming pair production of H++/H– bosons and a branching ratio to muons of 100% (33%), this analysis excludes masses below 355 (244) GeV and 251 (209) GeV for H++/H– bosons coupling to left-handed and right-handed fermions, respectively.
Search for new phenomena in high-mass diphoton final states using 37 fb^-1 of proton–proton collisions collected at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Searches for new phenomena in high-mass diphoton final states with the ATLAS experiment at the LHC are presented. The analysis is based on pp collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.7 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy √(s)=13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016. Searches are performed for resonances with spin 0, as predicted by theories with an extended Higgs sector, and for resonances with spin 2, using a warped extra-dimension model as a benchmark model, as well as for non-resonant signals, assuming a large extra-dimension scenario. No significant deviation from the Standard Model is observed. Upper limits are placed on the production cross section times branching ratio to two photons as a function of the resonance mass. In addition, lower limits are set on the ultraviolet cutoff scale in the large extra-dimensions model.
Search for Higgs boson decays to beyond-the-Standard-Model light bosons in four-lepton events with the ATLAS detector at √(s)=13 TeV. A search is conducted for a new beyond-the-Standard-Model boson using events where a Higgs boson with mass 125 GeV decays to four leptons (ℓ = e or μ). This decay is presumed to occur via an intermediate state which contains one or two on-shell, promptly decaying bosons: H→ ZX/XX → 4ℓ, where X is a new vector boson Z_d or pseudoscalar a with mass between 1 and 60 GeV. The search uses pp collision data collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC with an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy √(s)=13 TeV. No significant excess of events above Standard Model background predictions is observed; therefore, upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on model-independent fiducial cross-sections, and on the Higgs boson decay branching ratios to vector and pseudoscalar bosons in two benchmark models.
Lower bound for the standard model Higgs boson mass from combining the results of the four LEP experiments.
Searches for Higgs bosons.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons in CP-conserving and CP-violating MSSM scenarios. This report summarizes the final results from the OPAL collaboration on searches for neutral Higgs bosons predicted by the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). CP-conserving and for the first time at LEP CP-violating scenarios are studied. New scenarios are also included, which aim to set the stage for Higgs searches at future colliders. The results are based on the data collected with the OPAL detector at e+e- centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. The data are consistent with the prediction of the Standard Model with no Higgs boson produced. Model-independent limits are derived for the cross-section of a number of events topologies motivated by prediction of the MSSM. Limits on Higgs boson masses and other MSSM parameters are obtained for a number of representative MSSM benchmark scenarios. For example, in the CP-conserving scenario mh-max where the MSSM parameters are adjusted to predict the largest range of values for mh at each tan beta, and for a top quark mass of 174.3 GeV, the domain 0.7<tan beta<1.9 is excluded at the 95% confidence level and Higgs boson mass limits of mh>84.5 GeV and ma>85.0 GeV are obtained. For the CP-violating benchmark scenario CPX which, by construction, enhances the CP-violating effects in the Higgs sector, the domain tan beta<2.8 is excluded but no universal limit can be set on the Higgs boson masses.
Search for electroweak production of a vector-like T quark using fully hadronic final states. A search is performed for electroweak production of a vector-like top quark partner T of charge 2/3 in association with a top or bottom quark, using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search targets T quarks over a wide range of masses and fractional widths, decaying to a top quark and either a Higgs boson or a Z boson in fully hadronic final states. The search is performed using two experimentally distinct signatures that depend on whether or not each quark from the decays of the top quark, Higgs boson, or Z boson produces an individual resolved jet. Jet substructure, b tagging, and kinematic variables are used to identify the top quark and boson jets, and also to suppress the standard model backgrounds. The data are found to be consistent with the expected backgrounds. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the cross sections for T quark-mediated production of tHQq, tZQq, and their sum, where Q is the associated top or bottom heavy quark and q is another associated quark. The limits are given for each search signature for various T quark widths up to 30% of the T quark mass, and are between 2 pb and 20 fb for T quark masses in the range 0.6-2.6 TeV. These results are significantly more sensitive than prior searches for electroweak single production of T→tH and represent the first constraints on T→tZ using hadronic decays of the Z boson with this production mode.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson decay to μ^+μ^- with the ATLAS detector. A search is reported for Higgs boson decay to μ^+μ^- using data with an integrated luminosity of 24.8 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √(s)=7 and 8 TeV at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The observed dimuon invariant mass distribution is consistent with the Standard Model background-only hypothesis in the 120–150 GeV search range. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 125.5 GeV, the observed (expected) upper limit at the 95% confidence level is 7.0 (7.2) times the Standard Model expectation. This corresponds to an upper limit on the branching ratio BR(H →μ^+μ^-) of 1.5×10^-3.
Measurements of the Higgs boson width and anomalous HVV couplings from on-shell  and off-shell  production in the four-lepton final state. Studies of on-shell and off-shell Higgs boson production in the four-lepton final state are presented, using data from the CMS experiment at the LHC that correspond to an integrated luminosity of 80.2 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. Joint constraints are set on the Higgs boson total width and parameters that express its anomalous couplings to two electroweak vector bosons. These results are combined with those obtained from the data collected at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 and 19.7 fb^-1, respectively. Kinematic information from the decay particles and the associated jets are combined using matrix element techniques to identify the production mechanism and to increase sensitivity to the Higgs boson couplings in both production and decay. The constraints on anomalous HVV couplings are found to be consistent with the standard model expectation in both the on-shell and off-shell regions. Under the assumption of a coupling structure similar to that in the standard model, the Higgs boson width is constrained to be 3.2 ^+2.8_-2.2 MeV while the expected constraint based on simulation is 4.1 ^+5.0_-4.0 MeV. The constraints on the width remain similar with the inclusion of the tested anomalous HVV interactions.
Observation of the diphoton decay of the Higgs boson and measurement of its properties. Observation of the diphoton decay mode of the recently discovered Higgs boson and measurement of some of its properties are reported. The analysis uses the entire dataset collected by the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions during the 2011 and 2012 LHC running periods. The data samples correspond to integrated luminosities of 5.1 fb^-1 at √(s) = 7 TeV and 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV. A clear signal is observed in the diphoton channel at a mass close to 125 GeV with a local significance of 5.7 σ, where a significance of 5.2 σ is expected for the standard model Higgs boson. The mass is measured to be 124.70 ± 0.34 GeV = 124.70 ± 0.31 (stat) ± 0.15 (syst) GeV, and the best-fit signal strength relative to the standard model prediction is 1.14^+0.26_-0.23 =1.14 ± 0.21 (stat) ^+0.09_-0.05 (syst) ^+0.13_-0.09 (theo). Additional measurements include the signal strength modifiers associated with different production mechanisms, and hypothesis tests between spin-0 and spin-2 models.
Decay-mode independent searches for new scalar bosons with the OPAL detector at LEP. This paper describes topological searches for neutral scalar bosons S0 produced in association with a Z0 boson via the Bjorken process e+e- -> S0Z0 at centre-of-mass energies of 91 GeV and 183-209 GeV. These searches are based on studies of the recoil mass spectrum of Z0 -> e+e- and mu+mu- events on a search for S0Z0 with Z0 -> nunu bar and S0 -> e+e- or photons. They cover the decays of the S0 into an arbitrary combination of hadrons, leptons, photons and invisible particles as well as the possibility that it might be stable. No indication for a signal is found in the data and upper limits on the cross section of the Bjorken process are calculated. Cross-section limits are given in terms of a scale factor k with respect to the Standrad Model cross section for the Higgs-strahlung process e+e- -> H0smZ0. These results can be interpreted in general scenarios independently of the decay modes of the S0. The examples considered here are the production of a single new scalar particle with a decay width smaller than the detector mass resolution, and for the first time, two scenarios with continuous mass distributions, due to a single very broad state or several states close in mass.
Search for WH production with a light Higgs boson decaying to prompt electron-jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for WH production with a light Higgs boson decaying to hidden-sector particles resulting in clusters of collimated electrons, known as electron-jets. The search is performed with 2.04 fb-1 of data collected in 2011 with the ATLAS detector at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. One event satisfying the signal selection criteria is observed, which is consistent with the expected background rate. Limits on the product of the WH production cross section and the branching ratio of a Higgs boson decaying to prompt electron-jets are calculated as a function of a Higgs boson mass in the range from 100 GeV to 140 GeV.
Search for the bb̅ decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson in associated (W/Z)H production with the ATLAS detector. A search for the bb̅ decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson is performed with the ATLAS experiment using the full dataset recorded at the LHC in Run 1. The integrated luminosities used from pp collisions at √(s)=7 and 8 TeV are 4.7 and 20.3 fb^-1, respectively. The processes considered are associated (W/Z)H production, where W→ eν/μν, Z→ ee/μμ and Z→νν. The observed (expected) deviation from the background-only hypothesis corresponds to a significance of 1.4 (2.6) standard deviations and the ratio of the measured signal yield to the Standard Model expectation is found to be μ = 0.52 ± 0.32 (stat.)± 0.24 (syst.) for a Higgs boson mass of 125.36 GeV. The analysis procedure is validated by a measurement of the yield of (W/Z)Z production with Z→ bb̅ in the same final states as for the Higgs boson search, from which the ratio of the observed signal yield to the Standard Model expectation is found to be 0.74 ± 0.09 (stat.)± 0.14 (syst.).
Searches for the Zγ decay mode of the Higgs boson and for new high-mass resonances in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This article presents searches for the Zγ decay of the Higgs boson and for narrow high-mass resonances decaying to Zγ, exploiting Z boson decays to pairs of electrons or muons. The data analysis uses 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The data are found to be consistent with the expected Standard Model background. The observed (expected - assuming Standard Model pp→ H→ Zγ production and decay) upper limit on the production cross section times the branching ratio for pp→ H→ Zγ is 6.6 (5.2) times the Standard Model prediction at the 95% confidence level for a Higgs boson mass of 125.09 GeV. In addition, upper limits are set on the production cross section times the branching ratio as a function of the mass of a narrow resonance between 250 GeV and 2.4 TeV, assuming spin-0 resonances produced via gluon-gluon fusion, and spin-2 resonances produced via gluon-gluon or quark-antiquark initial states. For high-mass spin-0 resonances, the observed (expected) limits vary between 88 fb (61 fb) and 2.8 fb (2.7 fb) for the mass range from 250 GeV to 2.4 TeV at the 95% confidence level.
Search for a heavy Higgs boson decaying into a Z boson and another heavy Higgs boson in the ℓℓ bb and ℓℓ WW final states in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy neutral Higgs boson, A, decaying into a Z boson and another heavy Higgs boson, H, is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 from proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The search considers the Z boson decaying into electrons or muons and the H boson into a pair of b-quarks or W bosons. The mass range considered  is 230-800 GeV for the A boson and  130-700 GeV for the H boson. The data are in good agreement with the background predicted by the Standard Model, and therefore 95 % confidence-level upper limits for σ× B(A→ ZH)× B(H→ bb  or  H → WW) are set. The upper limits are in the range 0.0062-0.380 pb for the H→ bb channel and in the range 0.023- 8.9 pb for the H→ WW channel. An interpretation of the results in the context of two-Higgs-doublet models is also given.
Observation of Higgs boson production in association with a top quark pair at the LHC with the ATLAS detector. The observation of Higgs boson production in association with a top quark pair (tt̅H), based on the analysis of proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider, is presented. Using data corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 79.8 fb^-1, and considering Higgs boson decays into bb̅, WW^*, ττ, γγ, and ZZ^*, the observed significance is 5.8 standard deviations, compared to an expectation of 4.9 standard deviations. Combined with the tt̅H searches using a dataset corresponding to integrated luminosities of 4.5 fb^-1 at 7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 at 8 TeV, the observed (expected) significance is 6.3 (5.1) standard deviations. Assuming Standard Model branching fractions, the total tt̅H production cross section at 13 TeV is measured to be 670 ± 90 (stat.) ^+110_-100 (syst.) fb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction.
Search for an invisibly decaying Higgs boson in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) = 183-189 GeV. A search for a Higgs boson decaying into invisible particles is performed using the datacollected at LEP by the L3 experiment at centre-of-mass energies of183 and 189. The integrated luminosities are respectively 55.3 and 176.4 .The observed candidates are consistent with the expectations from StandardModel processes.In the hypothesis that the production cross section of this Higgs bosonequals the Standard Model one and the branching ratio into invisibleparticles is 100%, a lower masslimit of 89.2 is set at 95% confidence level.
Search for charged Higgs bosons decaying via H^±→τ^±ν in fully hadronic final states using pp collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The results of a search for charged Higgs bosons decaying to a τ lepton and a neutrino, H^±→τ^±ν, are presented. The analysis is based on 19.5 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data at √(s)=8 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. Charged Higgs bosons are searched for in events consistent with top-quark pair production or in associated production with a top quark. The final state is characterised by the presence of a hadronic τ decay, missing transverse momentum, b-tagged jets, a hadronically decaying W boson, and the absence of any isolated electrons or muons with high transverse momenta. The data are consistent with the expected background from Standard Model processes. A statistical analysis leads to 95% confidence-level upper limits on the product of branching ratios B(t→ bH^±) × B(H^±→τ^±ν), between 0.23% and 1.3% for charged Higgs boson masses in the range 80–160 GeV. It also leads to 95% confidence-level upper limits on the production cross section times branching ratio, σ(pp → tH^± + X) × B(H^±→τ^±ν), between 0.76 pb and 4.5 fb, for charged Higgs boson masses ranging from 180 GeV to 1000 GeV. In the context of different scenarios of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model, these results exclude nearly all values of tanβ above one for charged Higgs boson masses between 80 GeV and 160 GeV, and exclude a region of parameter space with high tanβ for H^± masses between 200 GeV and 250 GeV.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson in the H → ZZ → 2l 2ν channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for the standard model Higgs boson in the H to ZZ to 2l 2nu decay channel, where l = e or mu, in pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV is presented. The data were collected at the LHC, with the CMS detector, and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.6 inverse femtobarns. No significant excess is observed above the background expectation, and upper limits are set on the Higgs boson production cross section. The presence of the standard model Higgs boson with a mass in the 270-440 GeV range is excluded at 95% confidence level.
Search for scalar resonances decaying into μ^+μ^- in events with and without b-tagged jets produced in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a narrow scalar resonance decaying into opposite-sign muon pair produced in events with and without b-tagged jets is presented in this paper. The A search for a narrow scalar resonance decaying into an opposite-sign muon pair produced in events with and without b-tagged jets is presented in this paper. The search uses 36.1 fb^-1 of √(s)=13 TeV proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. No significant excess of events above the expected Standard Model background is observed in the investigated mass range of 0.2 to 1.0 TeV. The observed upper limits at 95% confidence level on the cross section times branching ratio for b-quark associated production and gluon-gluon fusion are between 1.9 and 41 fb and 1.6 and 44 fb respectively, which is consistent with expectations.
Search for the Higgs boson decays H → ee and H → eμ in pp  collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Searches for the Higgs boson decays H → ee and H → e μ are performed using data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV at the LHC. No significant signals are observed, in agreement with the Standard Model expectation. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, the observed (expected) upper limit at the 95% confidence level on the branching fraction ℬ(H → ee) is 3.6 × 10^-4 (3.5 × 10^-4) and on ℬ(H → e μ) is 6.1× 10^-5 (5.8× 10^-5). These results represent improvements by factors of about five and six on the previous best limits on ℬ(H → ee) and ℬ(H → e μ) respectively.
Search for single production of a heavy vector-like T quark decaying to a Higgs boson and a top quark with a lepton and jets in the final state. A search for single production of vector-like top quark partners (T) decaying into a Higgs boson and a top quark is performed using data from pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 2.3 fb^-1. The top quark decay includes an electron or a muon while the Higgs boson decays into a pair of b quarks. No significant excess over standard model backgrounds is observed. Exclusion limits on the product of the production cross section and the branching fraction are derived in the T quark mass range 700 to 1800 GeV. For a mass of 1000 GeV, values of the product of the production cross section and the branching fraction greater than 0.8 and 0.7 pb are excluded at 95% confidence level, assuming left- and right-handed coupling of the T quark to standard model particles, respectively. This is the first analysis setting exclusion limits on the cross section of singly produced vector-like T quarks at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV.
Search for the Higgs boson decaying to two muons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for the Higgs boson decaying to two oppositely charged muons is presented using data recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Data are found to be compatible with the predicted background. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 125.09 GeV, the 95% confidence level observed (expected) upper limit on the production cross section times branching fraction to a pair of muons is found to be 2.95 (2.45) times the standard model expectation. In combination with data recorded at center-of-mass energies √(s)= 7 and 8 TeV, the observed (expected) upper limit improves to 2.92 (2.16) times the standard model value. This corresponds to an upper limit on the standard model Higgs boson branching fraction to muons of 6.4 × 10^-4.
Search for a heavy pseudoscalar boson decaying to a Z and a Higgs boson at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for a heavy pseudoscalar boson A decaying to a Z boson and the standard model Higgs boson. In the final state considered, the Higgs boson decays to a bottom quark and antiquark, and the Z boson decays either into a pair of electrons, muons, or neutrinos. The analysis is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected in 2016 by the CMS experiment at the LHC from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The data are found to be consistent with the background expectations. Exclusion limits are set in the context of two-Higgs-doublet models in the A boson mass range between 225 and 1000 GeV.
Electroweak Measurements in Electron-Positron Collisions at W-Boson-Pair Energies at LEP. Electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the electron-positron collider LEP at CERN from 1995 to 2000 are reported. The combined data set considered in this report corresponds to a total luminosity of about 3 fb^-1 collected by the four LEP experiments ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 130 GeV to 209 GeV. Combining the published results of the four LEP experiments, the measurements include total and differential cross-sections in photon-pair, fermion-pair and four-fermion production, the latter resulting from both double-resonant WW and ZZ production as well as singly resonant production. Total and differential cross-sections are measured precisely, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model at centre-of-mass energies never explored before in electron-positron collisions. Final-state interaction effects in four-fermion production, such as those arising from colour reconnection and Bose-Einstein correlations between the two W decay systems arising in WW production, are searched for and upper limits on the strength of possible effects are obtained. The data are used to determine fundamental properties of the W boson and the electroweak theory. Among others, the mass and width of the W boson, M_W and Γ_W, the branching fraction of W decays to hadrons, B(W→had), and the trilinear gauge-boson self-couplings g^Z_1, κ_γ and λ_γ are determined to be: m_W = 80.376 ± 0.033 GeV Γ_W = 2.195 ± 0.083 GeV B(W →had) = 67.41 ± 0.27% g^Z_1 = 0.984 ^+0.018_-0.020 κ_γ = 0.982 ± 0.042 λ_γ = -0.022 ± 0.019
Searches for the standard Higgs boson produced in the reaction e^+e^-→ H^0Z.
Constraints on non-Standard Model Higgs boson interactions in an effective Lagrangian using differential cross sections measured in the H →γγ decay channel at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The strength and tensor structure of the Higgs boson's interactions are investigated within an effective field theory framework, which allows new CP-even and CP-odd interactions that can lead to changes in the kinematic properties of the Higgs boson and associated jet spectra. The parameters of the effective field theory are probed using a fit to five differential cross sections previously measured by the ATLAS experiment in the H →γγ decay channel with an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 at √(s)=8 TeV. In order to perform a simultaneous fit to the five distributions, the statistical correlations between them are determined by re-analysing the H →γγ candidate events in the proton-proton collision data. No significant deviations from the Standard Model are observed and limits on the effective field theory parameters are derived. The statistical correlations are made publicly available to allow for future analysis of theories with non-Standard Model interactions.
Searches for neutral Higgs bosons in e+e- collisions at LEP.
Measurements of the Higgs boson production and decay rates and constraints on its couplings from a combined ATLAS and CMS analysis of the LHC pp collision data at √(s)= 7 and 8 TeV. Combined ATLAS and CMS measurements of the Higgs boson production and decay rates, as well as constraints on its couplings to vector bosons and fermions, are presented. The combination is based on the analysis of five production processes, namely gluon fusion, vector boson fusion, and associated production with a W or a Z boson or a pair of top quarks, and of the six decay modes H → ZZ, WW, γγ, ττ, bb, and μμ. All results are reported assuming a value of 125.09 GeV for the Higgs boson mass, the result of the combined measurement by the ATLAS and CMS experiments. The analysis uses the CERN LHC proton–proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS and CMS experiments in 2011 and 2012, corresponding to integrated luminosities per experiment of approximately 5 fb^-1 at √(s)=7 TeV and 20 fb^-1 at √(s) = 8 TeV. The Higgs boson production and decay rates measured by the two experiments are combined within the context of three generic parameterisations: two based on cross sections and branching fractions, and one on ratios of coupling modifiers. Several interpretations of the measurements with more model-dependent parameterisations are also given. The combined signal yield relative to the Standard Model prediction is measured to be 1.09 ± 0.11. The combined measurements lead to observed significances for the vector boson fusion production process and for the H →ττ decay of 5.4 and 5.5 standard deviations, respectively. The data are consistent with the Standard Model predictions for all parameterisations considered.
Search for a very light Higgs boson in Z decays.
Search for Physics Beyond the Standard Model in Events with High-Momentum Higgs Bosons and Missing Transverse Momentum in Proton-Proton Collisions at 13 TeV. A search for physics beyond the standard model in events with one or more high-momentum Higgs bosons, H, decaying to pairs of b quarks in association with missing transverse momentum is presented. The data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, were collected with the CMS detector at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at the center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV. The analysis utilizes a new b quark tagging technique based on jet substructure to identify jets from H→bb̅. Events are categorized by the multiplicity of H-tagged jets, jet mass, and the missing transverse momentum. No significant deviation from standard model expectations is observed. In the context of supersymmetry (SUSY), limits on the cross sections of pair-produced gluinos are set, assuming that gluinos decay to quark pairs, H (or Z), and the lightest SUSY particle, LSP, through an intermediate next-to-lightest SUSY particle, NLSP. With large mass splitting between the NLSP and LSP, and 100% NLSP branching fraction to H, the lower limit on the gluino mass is found to be 2010 GeV.
Search for long-lived neutral particles decaying into lepton jets in proton–proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Several models of physics beyond the Standard Model predict neutral particles that decay into final states consisting of collimated jets of light leptons and hadrons (so-called "lepton jets"). These particles can also be long-lived with decay length comparable to, or even larger than, the LHC detectors' linear dimensions. This paper presents the results of a search for lepton jets in proton–proton collisions at the centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV in a sample of 20.3 fb^-1 collected during 2012 with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Limits on models predicting Higgs boson decays to neutral long-lived lepton jets are derived as a function of the particle's proper decay length.
Search for heavy neutral Higgs bosons produced in association with b-quarks and decaying to b-quarks at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy neutral Higgs bosons produced in association with one or two b-quarks and decaying to b-quark pairs is presented using 27.8 fb^-1 of √(s)=13 TeV proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider during 2015 and 2016. No evidence of a signal is found. Upper limits on the heavy neutral Higgs boson production cross-section times its branching ratio to bb̅ are set, ranging from 4.0 to 0.6 pb at 95% confidence level over a Higgs boson mass range of 450 to 1400 GeV. Results are interpreted within the two-Higgs-doublet model and the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model.
Search for Charged Higgs Bosons in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s) = 189 GeV. A search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons is performed with the L3 detector at LEP using data collected at a centre-of-mass energy of 188.6 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 176.4 pb^-1. Higgs decays into a charm and a strange quark or into a tau lepton and its associated neutrino are considered. The observed events are consistent with the expectations from Standard Model background processes. A lower limit of 65.5 GeV on the charged Higgs mass is derived at 95% confidence level, independent of the decay branching ratio Br(H^±→τν).
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons decaying into a pair of bottom quarks. A search for neutral Higgs bosons decaying into a b b̅ quark pair and produced in association with at least one additional b quark is presented. This signature is sensitive to the Higgs sector of the minimal supersymmetric standard model (MSSM) with large values of the parameter tanβ. The analysis is based on data from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1.  The results are combined with a previous analysis based on 7 TeV data. No signal is observed. Stringent upper limits on the cross section times branching fraction are derived for Higgs bosons with masses up to 900 GeV, and the results are interpreted within different MSSM benchmark scenarios, m_h^max, m_h^mod+, m_h^mod-, light-stau and light-stop. Observed 95% confidence level upper limits on tanβ, ranging from 14 to 50, are obtained in the m_h^mod+ benchmark scenario.
Dark matter interpretations of ATLAS searches for the electroweak production of supersymmetric particles in √(s) = 8 TeV proton-proton collisions. A selection of searches by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC for the electroweak production of SUSY particles are used to study their impact on the constraints on dark matter candidates. The searches use 20  fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s)=8 TeV. A likelihood-driven scan of a five-dimensional effective model focusing on the gaugino–higgsino and Higgs sector of the phenomenological minimal supersymmetric Standard Model is performed. This scan uses data from direct dark matter detection experiments, the relic dark matter density and precision flavour physics results. Further constraints from the ATLAS Higgs mass measurement and SUSY searches at LEP are also applied. A subset of models selected from this scan are used to assess the impact of the selected ATLAS searches in this five-dimensional parameter space. These ATLAS searches substantially impact those models for which the mass m(χ̃^0_1) of the lightest neutralino is less than 65 GeV, excluding 86% of such models. The searches have limited impact on models with larger m(χ̃^0_1) due to either heavy electroweakinos or compressed mass spectra where the mass splittings between the produced particles and the lightest supersymmetric particle is small.
Search for dark matter produced in association with a leptonically decaying Z boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for dark matter particles is performed using events with a Z boson candidate and large missing transverse momentum. The analysis is based on proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016-2018, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. The search uses the decay channels Z→ee and Z→μμ. No significant excess of events is observed over the background expected from the standard model. Limits are set on dark matter particle production in the context of simplified models with vector, axial-vector, scalar, and pseudoscalar mediators, as well as on a two-Higgs-doublet model with an additional pseudoscalar mediator. In addition, limits are provided for spin-dependent and spin-independent scattering cross sections and are compared to those from direct-detection experiments. The results are also interpreted in the context of models of invisible Higgs boson decays, unparticles, and large extra dimensions.
Search for charged Higgs bosons using the OPAL detector at LEP.
Measurement and interpretation of differential cross sections for Higgs boson production at √(s)= 13 TeV. Differential Higgs boson (H) production cross sections are sensitive probes for physics beyond the standard model. New physics may contribute in the gluon-gluon fusion loop, the dominant Higgs boson production mechanism at the LHC, and manifest itself through deviations from the distributions predicted by the standard model. Combined spectra for the H→γγ, H→ZZ, and H→bb̅ decay channels and the inclusive Higgs boson production cross section are presented, based on proton-proton collision data recorded with the CMS detector at √(s)= 13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The transverse momentum spectrum is used to place limits on the Higgs boson couplings to the top, bottom, and charm quarks, as well as its direct coupling to the gluon field. No significant deviations from the standard model are observed in any differential distribution. The measured total cross section is 61.1 ± 6.0 (stat) ± 3.7 (syst) pb, and the precision of the measurement of the differential cross section of the Higgs boson transverse momentum is improved by about 15% with respect to the H→γγ channel alone.
Search for charged Higgs bosons produced via vector boson fusion and decaying into a pair of W and Z bosons using proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for charged Higgs bosons produced in vector boson fusion processes and decaying into W and Z A search for charged Higgs bosons produced via vector boson fusion and decaying into W and Z bosons using proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV is presented. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 15.2 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector in 2015 and 2016. The event selection requires three leptons (electrons or muons), two jets with large pseudorapidity separation and high dijet mass, and missing transverse momentum. The observation agrees with the standard model prediction. Limits on the vector boson fusion production cross section times branching fraction for new charged physical states are reported as a function of mass from 200 to 2000 GeV and interpreted in the context of Higgs triplet models.
Search for an invisibly decaying Higgs boson in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) = 183-189 GeV. A search for a Higgs boson decaying into invisible particles is performed using the datacollected at LEP by the L3 experiment at centre-of-mass energies of183 and 189. The integrated luminosities are respectively 55.3 and 176.4 .The observed candidates are consistent with the expectations from StandardModel processes.In the hypothesis that the production cross section of this Higgs bosonequals the Standard Model one and the branching ratio into invisibleparticles is 100%, a lower masslimit of 89.2 is set at 95% confidence level.
Cross-section measurements of the Higgs boson decaying into a pair of τ-leptons in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A measurement of production cross sections of the Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions is presented in the H→ττ decay channel. The analysis is performed using 36.1 fb^-1 of data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of √(s)=13 TeV. All combinations of leptonic (τ→ l νν̅ with l = e, μ) and hadronic (τ→ hadrons ν) tau decays are considered. The H→ττ signal over the expected background from other Standard Model processes is established with an observed (expected) significance of 4.4 (4.1) standard deviations. Combined with results obtained using data taken at 7 and 8 TeV center-of-mass energies, the observed (expected) significance amounts to 6.4 (5.4) standard deviations and constitutes an observation of H→ττ decays. Using the data taken at √(s)=13 TeV, the total cross section in the H→ττ decay channel is measured to be 3.77^+0.60_-0.59(stat.)^+0.87_-0.74(syst.) pb, for a Higgs boson of mass 125 GeV assuming the relative contributions of its production modes as predicted by the Standard Model. Total cross sections in the H→ττ decay channel are determined separately for vector-boson-fusion production and gluon-gluon-fusion production to be 0.28 ± 0.09(stat.)^+0.11_-0.09(syst.) pb and 3.1 ± 1.0(stat.)^+1.6_-1.3(syst.) pb, respectively. Similarly, results of a fit are reported in the framework of simplified template cross sections. All measurements are in agreement with Standard Model expectations.
Mass Limit for the standard model Higgs boson with the full LEP I ALEPH data sample. background from the electroweak process e+e- –> l+ l- q qbar. This search results in a 95% C.L. lower limit on the Higgs boson mass of 63.9 . The reaction e+e- –> HZ* is used to search for the standard model Higgs boson in the H nu nubar and the H l+ l- channels. The data sample corresponds to about 4.5 million hadronic Z decays collected by the ALEPH experiment at LEP from 1989 to 1995 at centre-of-mass energies at and around the Z peak. Three candidate events are found in the H mu+ mu- channel, in agreement with the expected
Search for the charged Higgs boson in Z0 decay.
Measurement of the associated production of a Higgs boson decaying into b-quarks with a vector boson at high transverse momentum in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The associated production of a Higgs boson with a W or Z boson decaying into leptons and where the Higgs boson decays to a bb̅ pair is measured in the high vector-boson transverse momentum regime, above 250 GeV, with the ATLAS detector. The analysed data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1, were collected in proton-proton collisions at the Large Hadron Collider between 2015 and 2018 at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV. The measured signal strength, defined as the ratio of the measured signal yield to that predicted by the Standard Model, is 0.72 ^+0.39_-0.36 corresponding to an observed (expected) significance of 2.1 (2.7) standard deviations. Cross-sections of associated production of a Higgs boson decaying into b quark pairs with a W or Z gauge boson, decaying into leptons, are measured in two exclusive transverse momentum regions, 250-400 GeV and above 400 GeV, and interpreted as constraints on anomalous couplings in the framework of a Standard Model effective field theory.
Measurement of the Higgs boson coupling properties in the H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ decay channel at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The coupling properties of the Higgs boson are studied in the four-lepton decay channel using 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collision data from the LHC at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector. Cross sections are measured for the four key production modes in several exclusive regions of the Higgs boson production phase space and are interpreted in terms of coupling modifiers. The inclusive cross section times branching ratio for H → ZZ^* decay and for a Higgs boson absolute rapidity below 2.5 is measured to be 1.73^+0.24_-0.23(stat.)^+0.10_-0.08(exp.)± 0.04(th.) pb compared to the Standard Model prediction of 1.34±0.09 pb. In addition, the tensor structure of the Higgs boson couplings is studied using an effective Lagrangian approach for the description of interactions beyond the Standard Model. Constraints are placed on the non-Standard-Model CP-even and CP-odd couplings to Z bosons and on the CP-odd coupling to gluons.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the decay channel H → ZZ^(*)→ 4l with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the decay channel H->ZZ(*)->l+l-l+l-, where l=e,mu, is presented. Proton-proton collision data at sqrt(s)=7 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector and corresponding to an average integrated luminosity of 2.1 fb-1 are compared to the Standard Model expectations. Upper limits on the production cross section of a Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass between 110 and 600 GeV are derived. The observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper limit on the production cross section for a Higgs boson with a mass of 194 GeV, the region with the best expected sensitivity for this search, is 0.99 (1.01) times the Standard Model prediction. The Standard Model Higgs boson is excluded at 95% confidence level in the mass ranges 191-197, 199-200 and 214-224 GeV.
Search for bottom-squark pair production with the ATLAS detector in final states containing Higgs bosons, b-jets and missing transverse momentumSearch for bottom-squark pair production with the ATLAS detector in final states containing Higgs bosons, b-jets and missing transverse momentum. The result of a search for the pair production of the lightest supersymmetric partner of the bottom quark (b̃_1) using 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton data collected at √(s) = 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector is reported. In the supersymmetric scenarios considered both of the bottom-squarks decay into a b-quark and the second-lightest neutralino, b̃_1→ b + χ̃^0_2. Each χ̃^0_2 is assumed to subsequently decay with 100% branching ratio into a Higgs boson (h) like the one in the Standard Model and the lightest neutralino: χ̃^0_2→ h + χ̃^0_1. The χ̃^0_1 is assumed to be the lightest supersymmetric particle (LSP) and is stable. Two signal mass configurations are targeted: the first has a constant LSP mass of 60 GeV; and the second has a constant mass difference between the χ̃^0_2 and χ̃^0_1 of 130 GeV. The final states considered contain no charged leptons, three or more b-jets, and large missing transverse momentum. No significant excess of events over the Standard Model background expectation is observed in any of the signal regions considered. Limits at the 95% confidence level are placed in the supersymmetric models considered, and bottom-squarks with mass up to 1.5 TeV are excluded.
Search for Higgs bosons produced via vector-boson fusion and decaying into bottom quark pairs in √(s) = 13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search for the bb̅ decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson produced through vector-boson fusion is presented. Three mutually exclusive channels are considered: two all-hadronic channels and a photon-associated channel. Results are reported from the analysis of up to 30.6 fb^-1 of pp data at √(s) = 13 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The measured signal strength relative to the Standard Model prediction from the combined analysis is 2.5^+1.4_-1.3 for inclusive Higgs boson production and 3.0^+1.7_-1.6 for vector-boson fusion production only.
Study of Fermion Pair Production in e^+e^- Collisions at 130-183 GeV. The cross sections and forward-backward asymmetries of hadronic and leptonic events produced in e+e- collisions at centre-of-mass energies of 130-183 GeV are presented. Results for ee, mumu, tautau, qq, bb and cc production show no significant deviation from the Standard Model predictions. This enable constraints to be set upon physics beyond the Standard Model such as four-fermion contact interactions, leptoquarks, Z' bosons and R-parity violating squarks and sneutrinos. Limits on the energy scale Lambda of eeff contact interactions are typically in the range from 2-10 TeV. Limits on R-parity violating sneutrinos reach masses of a few hundred GeV for large values of their Yukawa couplings.
Searches for new particles in Z decays using the ALEPH detector.
Measurements of fiducial and differential cross sections for Higgs boson production in the diphoton decay channel at √(s)=8 TeV with ATLAS. Measurements of fiducial and differential cross sections are presented for Higgs boson production in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=8 TeV. The analysis is performed in the H →γγ decay channel using 20.3 fb^-1 of data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The signal is extracted using a fit to the diphoton invariant mass spectrum assuming that the width of the resonance is much smaller than the experimental resolution. The signal yields are corrected for the effects of detector inefficiency and resolution. The pp→ H →γγ fiducial cross section is measured to be 43.2 ± 9.4 (stat) ^+3.2_-2.9 (syst) ± 1.2 (lumi) fb for a Higgs boson of mass 125.4 GeV decaying to two isolated photons that have transverse momentum greater than 35% and 25% of the diphoton invariant mass and each with absolute pseudorapidity less than 2.37. Four additional fiducial cross sections and two cross-section limits are presented in phase space regions that test the theoretical modelling of different Higgs boson production mechanisms, or are sensitive to physics beyond the Standard Model. Differential cross sections are also presented, as a function of variables related to the diphoton kinematics and the jet activity produced in the Higgs boson events. The observed spectra are statistically limited but broadly in line with the theoretical expectations.
Search for a very light NMSSM Higgs boson produced in decays of the 125 GeV scalar boson and decaying into τ leptons in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for a very light Higgs boson decaying into a pair of τ leptons is presented within the framework of the next-to-minimal supersymmetric standard model. This search is based on a data set corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions collected by the CMS experiment at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. The signal is defined by the production of either of the two lightest scalars, h_1 or h_2, via gluon-gluon fusion and subsequent decay into a pair of the lightest Higgs bosons, a_1 or h_1. The h_1 or h_2 boson is identified with the observed state at a mass of 125 GeV. The analysis searches for decays of the a_1  ( h_1 ) states into pairs of τ leptons and covers a mass range for the a_1  ( h_1 ) boson of 4 to 8 GeV. The search reveals no significant excess in data above standard model background expectations, and an upper limit is set on the signal production cross section times branching fraction as a function of the a_1  ( h_1 ) boson mass. The 95% confidence level limit ranges from 4.5 pb at m_ a_1  (m_ h_1 )= 8 GeV to 10.3 pb at m_ a_1  (m_ h_1 ) = 5 GeV.
Measurement of W^+W^- Production and Search for the Higgs Boson in pp Collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A measurement of W^+W^- production in pp collisions at sqrt(s) = 7 TeV and a search for the Higgs boson are reported. The W^+W^- candidates are selected in events with two leptons, either electrons or muons. The measurement is performed using LHC data recorded with the CMS detector, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36 inverse picobarns. The pp to W^+W^- cross section is measured to be 41.1 ± 15.3 (stat) ± 5.8 (syst) ± 4.5 (lumi) pb, consistent with the standard model prediction. Limits on WW gamma and WWZ anomalous triple gauge couplings are set. The search for the standard model Higgs boson in the W^+W^- decay mode does not reveal any evidence of excess above backgrounds. Limits are set on the production of the Higgs boson in the context of the standard model and in the presence of a sequential fourth family of fermions with high masses. In the latter context, a Higgs boson with mass between 144 and 207 GeV/c2 is ruled out at 95% confidence level.
Search for charged Higgs bosons decaying via H^±→τ^±ν_τ in the τ+jets and τ+lepton final states with 36 fb^-1 of pp collision data recorded at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS experiment. Charged Higgs bosons produced either in top-quark decays or in association with a top-quark, subsequently decaying via H^±→τ^±ν_τ, are searched for in 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s)=13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector. Depending on whether the top-quark produced together with H^± decays hadronically or leptonically, the search targets τ+jets and τ+lepton final states, in both cases with a hadronically decaying τ-lepton. No evidence of a charged Higgs boson is found. For the mass range of m_H^± = 90-2000 GeV, upper limits at the 95% confidence level are set on the production cross-section of the charged Higgs boson times the branching fraction B(H^±→τ^±ν_τ) in the range 4.2-0.0025 pb. In the mass range 90-160 GeV, assuming the Standard Model cross-section for tt production, this corresponds to upper limits between 0.25% and 0.031% for the branching fraction B(t→ bH^±) ×B(H^±→τ^±ν_τ).
Measurement of inclusive and differential Higgs boson production cross sections in the diphoton decay channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. Measurements of the inclusive and differential production cross sections for the Higgs boson in the diphoton decay channel are performed using the data set of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The cross sections are measured in a fiducial phase space defined by a set of requirements on the isolation and kinematic variables of the photons. Differential cross sections are measured as functions of the kinematic properties of the diphoton system and the event. A subset of the measurements is performed in subregions of the fiducial phase space, where relative contributions of specific Higgs boson production mechanisms are enhanced. The total cross section in the chosen fiducial phase space is measured to be 84 ± 11 (stat) ± 7 (syst) fb = 84 ± 13 fb, to be compared with a theoretical prediction of 73 ± 4 fb. All measurements are found to be in agreement with the theoretical predictions for the standard model Higgs boson with a mass of 125.09 GeV within the experimental and theoretical uncertainties.
Search for lepton flavour violating decays of the Higgs boson to μτ and eτ in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for lepton flavour violating decays of the Higgs boson in the μτ and eτ decay modes is presented. The search is based on a data set corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions collected with the CMS detector in 2016, at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. No significant excess over the standard model expectation is observed. The observed (expected) upper limits on the lepton flavour violating branching fractions of the Higgs boson are ℬ(H→μτ) < 0.25% (0.25%) and ℬ(H→eτ) < 0.61% (0.37%), at 95% confidence level. These results are used to derive upper limits on the off-diagonal μτ and eτ Yukawa couplings √(|Y_μτ|^2+|Y_τμ|^2) < 1.43 × 10^-3 and √(|Y_eτ|^2+|Y_τe|^2) < 2.26 × 10^-3 at 95% confidence level. The limits on the lepton flavour violating branching fractions of the Higgs boson and on the associated Yukawa couplings are the most stringent to date.
Performance of photon reconstruction and identification with the CMS detector in proton-proton collisions at √(s) =8 TeV. A description is provided of the performance of the CMS detector for photon reconstruction and identification in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV at the CERN LHC. Details are given on the reconstruction of photons from energy deposits in the electromagnetic calorimeter (ECAL) and the extraction of photon energy estimates. The reconstruction of electron tracks from photons that convert to electrons in the CMS tracker is also described, as is the optimization of the photon energy reconstruction and its accurate modelling in simulation, in the analysis of the Higgs boson decay into two photons. In the barrel section of the ECAL, an energy resolution of about 1% is achieved for unconverted or late-converting photons from H→γγ decays. Different photon identification methods are discussed and their corresponding selection efficiencies in data are compared with those found in simulated events. The measurement of the photon purity is described for one set of photon identification criteria.
Search for Dark Matter in Events with Missing Transverse Momentum and a Higgs Boson Decaying to Two Photons in pp Collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS Detector. Results of a search for new phenomena in events with large missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson decaying to two photons are reported. Data from proton–proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 have been collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The observed data are well described by the expected Standard Model backgrounds. Upper limits on the cross section of events with large missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson candidate are also placed. Exclusion limits are presented for models of physics beyond the Standard Model featuring dark-matter candidates.
A search for technipions and charged Higgs bosons at LEP.
Search for electroweak production of a vector-like quark decaying to a top quark and a Higgs boson using boosted topologies in fully hadronic final states. A search is performed for electroweak production of a vector-like top quark partner T of charge 2/3 in association with a standard model top or bottom quark, using 2.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s)= 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC. The search targets T quarks decaying to a top quark and a Higgs boson in fully hadronic final states. For a T quark with mass above 1 TeV the daughter top quark and Higgs boson are highly Lorentz-boosted and can each appear as a single hadronic jet. Jet substructure and b tagging techniques are used to identify the top quark and Higgs boson jets, and to suppress the standard model backgrounds. An excess of events is searched for in the T quark candidate mass distribution in the data, which is found to be consistent with the expected backgrounds. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the product of the single T quark production cross sections and the branching fraction ℬ(T→ t  H ), and these vary between 0.31 and 0.93 pb for T quark masses in the range 1000-1800 GeV. This is the first search for single electroweak production of a vector-like T quark in fully hadronic final states.
Search for top quark decays t → qH with H →γγ using the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for flavour-changing neutral currents in the decay of a top quark to an up-type (c, u) quark and a Higgs boson, where the Higgs boson decays to two photons. The proton-proton collision data set used corresponds to 4.7 fb^-1 at √(s) = 7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 at √(s) = 8 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. Top quark pair events are searched for in which one top quark decays to qH  and the other decays to bW. Both  the hadronic and the leptonic decay modes of the W boson are used. No significant signal is observed and an upper limit is set on the t→ qH branching ratio of 0.79% at the 95% confidence level. The corresponding limit on the tqH coupling combination √(λ_tcH^2 + λ_tuH^2) is 0.17.
Search for Higgs bosons decaying to WW in e^+e^- collisions at LEP. A search for Higgs bosons produced in association with a fermion pair, and decaying to WW, is performed with the data collected by the ALEPH detector at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 191 to 209 GeV. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 453.2 pb^-1. Thirteen exclusive selections are developed according to the different final state topologies. No statistically significant evidence for a Higgs boson decaying into a WW pair has been found. An upper limit is derived, as a function of the Higgs boson mass, on the product of the e+e- ->Hff cross section and the H->WW branching ratio. The data on the search for H->WW are combined with previously published ALEPH results on the search for H->gamma gamma, to significantly extend the limits on the mass of a fermiophobic Higgs boson.
Search for dark photons in decays of Higgs bosons produced in association with Z bosons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for a Higgs boson that is produced in association with a Z boson and that decays to an undetected particle together with an isolated photon. The search is performed by the CMS Collaboration at the Large Hadron Collider using a data set corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1 recorded at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. No significant excess of events above the expectation from the standard model background is found. The results are interpreted in the context of a theoretical model in which the undetected particle is a massless dark photon. An upper limit is set on the product of the cross section for associated Higgs and Z boson production and the branching fraction for such a Higgs boson decay, as a function of the Higgs boson mass. For a mass of 125 GeV, assuming the standard model production cross section, this corresponds to an observed (expected) upper limit on this branching fraction of 4.6 (3.6)% at 95% confidence level. These are the first limits on Higgs boson decays to final states that include an undetected massless dark photon.
Search for lepton flavour violating decays of the Higgs boson to μτ and eτ in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for lepton flavour violating decays of the Higgs boson in the μτ and eτ decay modes is presented. The search is based on a data set corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions collected with the CMS detector in 2016, at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. No significant excess over the standard model expectation is observed. The observed (expected) upper limits on the lepton flavour violating branching fractions of the Higgs boson are ℬ(H→μτ) < 0.25% (0.25%) and ℬ(H→eτ) < 0.61% (0.37%), at 95% confidence level. These results are used to derive upper limits on the off-diagonal μτ and eτ Yukawa couplings √(|Y_μτ|^2+|Y_τμ|^2) < 1.43 × 10^-3 and √(|Y_eτ|^2+|Y_τe|^2) < 2.26 × 10^-3 at 95% confidence level. The limits on the lepton flavour violating branching fractions of the Higgs boson and on the associated Yukawa couplings are the most stringent to date.
A search for a doubly-charged Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for a doubly-charged Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV is presented. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 inverse femtobarns, collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The search is performed using events with three or more isolated charged leptons of any flavor, giving sensitivity to the decays of pair-produced triplet components Φ^++Φ^–, and Φ^++Φ^- from associated production. No excess is observed compared to the background prediction, and upper limits at the 95% confidence level are set on the Φ^++ production cross section, under specific assumptions on its branching fractions. Lower bounds on the Φ^++ mass are reported, providing significantly more stringent constraints than previously published limits.
Search for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson in the dimuon decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. The dimuon invariant mass spectrum is searched in the range between 5.5 and 14 GeV for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson "a", predicted in a number of new physics models, including the next-to-minimal supersymmetric standard model. The data sample used in the search corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 1.3 inverse femtobarns collected in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the CMS detector at the LHC. No excess is observed above the background predictions and upper limits are set on the cross section times branching fraction sigma times B(pp to "a" to an oppositely charged muon pair) in the range of 1.5-7.5 pb. These results improve on existing bounds on the "a" b-bbar coupling for m("a") < m(Upsilon(1S)) and are the first significant limits for m("a") > m(Upsilon(1S)). Constraints on the supersymmetric parameter space are presented in the context of the next-to-minimal model.
Search for a non-standard-model Higgs boson decaying to a pair of new light bosons in four-muon final states. Results are reported from a search for non-standard-model Higgs boson decays to pairs of new light bosons, each of which decays into the oppositely charged dimuon final state. The new bosons may be produced either promptly or via a decay chain. The data set corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 5.3 inverse femtobarns of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV, recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC. Such Higgs boson decays are predicted in several scenarios of new physics, including supersymmetric models with extended Higgs sectors or hidden valleys. Thus, the results of the search are relevant for establishing whether the new particle observed in Higgs boson searches at the LHC has the properties expected for a standard model Higgs boson. No excess of events is observed with respect to the yields expected from standard model processes. A model-independent upper limit of 0.78 +/- 0.05 fb on the product of the cross section times branching fraction times acceptance is obtained. The results are applicable to a broad spectrum of models and are also compared with the predictions of two benchmark scenarios as functions of a Higgs boson mass within the range 86-150 GeV and of a new light boson mass within the range 0.25-3.55 GeV.
Search for a pseudoscalar boson decaying into a Z boson and the 125 GeV Higgs boson in ℓ^+ ℓ^- b b̅ final states. Results are reported on a search for decays of a pseudoscalar A boson into a Z boson and a light scalar h boson, where the Z boson decays into a pair of oppositely-charged electrons or muons, and the h boson decays into b b̅. The search is based on data from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 8 TeV collected with the CMS detector, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The h boson is assumed to be the recently discovered standard model-like Higgs boson with a mass of 125 GeV. With no evidence for signal, upper limits are obtained on the product of the production cross section and the branching fraction of the A boson in the Zh channel. Results are also interpreted in the context of two Higgs doublet models.
Measurement of the inclusive and differential Higgs boson production cross sections in the leptonic WW decay mode at √(s) = 13 TeV. Measurement of the fiducial inclusive and differential production cross sections of the Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV are performed using events where the Higgs boson decays into a pair of W bosons that subsequently decay into a final state with an electron, a muon, and a pair of neutrinos. The analysis is based on data collected with the CMS detector at the LHC during 2016-2018, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. Production cross sections are measured as a function of the transverse momentum of the Higgs boson and the associated jet multiplicity. The Higgs boson signal is extracted and simultaneously unfolded to correct for selection efficiency and resolution effects using maximum-likelihood fits to the observed distributions in data. The integrated fiducial cross section is measured to be 86.5 ± 9.5 fb, consistent with the Standard Model expectation of 82.5 ± 4.2 fb. No significant deviation from the Standard Model expectations is observed in the differential measurements.
Search for Higgs boson decays into a Z boson and a light hadronically  decaying resonance using 13 TeV pp collision data from the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson decays into a Z boson and a light resonance in two-lepton plus jet events is performed, using a pp collision dataset with an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 collected at √(s)=13 TeV by the ATLAS experiment at the CERN LHC. The resonance considered is a light boson with a mass below 4 GeV from a possible extended scalar sector, or a charmonium state. Multivariate discriminants are used for the event selection and for evaluating the mass of the light resonance. No excess of events above the expected background is found. Observed (expected) 95% confidence-level upper limits are set on the Higgs boson production cross section times branching fraction to a Z boson and the signal resonance, with values in the range 17 pb to 340 pb (16^+6_-5 pb to 320^+130_-90 pb) for the different light spin-0 boson mass and branching fraction hypotheses, and with values of 110 pb and 100 pb (100^+40_-30 pb and 100^+40_-30 pb) for the η_c and J/ψ hypotheses, respectively.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson in the decay channel H → ZZ → 4 l in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for a Higgs boson in the four-lepton decay channel H to ZZ, with each Z boson decaying to an electron or muon pair, is reported. The search covers Higgs boson mass hypotheses in the range 110 < mH < 600 GeV. The analysis uses data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 inverse femtobarns recorded by the CMS detector in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV from the LHC. Seventy-two events are observed with four-lepton invariant mass m[4 leptons] > 100 GeV (with thirteen below 160 GeV), while 67.1 +/- 6.0 (9.5 +/-1.3) events are expected from background. The four-lepton mass distribution is consistent with the expectation of standard model background production of ZZ pairs. Upper limits at 95% confidence level exclude the standard model Higgs boson in the ranges 134-158 GeV, 180-305 GeV, and 340 -465 GeV. Small excesses of events are observed around masses of 119, 126, and 320 GeV, making the observed limits weaker than expected in the absence of a signal.
Search for the neutral Higgs bosons of the MSSM in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) from 130 to 172 GeV. The process e+e- –> h A is used to search for the Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM), in the bbbb and tautaubb final states. The search is performed in the data collected by the ALEPH experiment at LEP, at centre-of-mass energies between 130 and 172 GeV and with a total luminosity of 27.2 pb-1. No candidate events are found in either of the final states, in agreement with the expected background of 0.91 events from all Standard Model processes. Combined with searches for e+e- –> hZ, this results in a 95% C.L. lower limit on the masses of both h and A of 62.5 GeV/c2, for tan(beta) > 1.
Search for new physics in final states with an energetic jet or a hadronically decaying W or Z boson and transverse momentum imbalance at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for new physics using events containing an imbalance in transverse momentum and one or more energetic jets arising from initial-state radiation or the hadronic decay of W or Z bosons is presented. A data sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the LHC and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, is used. The observed data are found to be in agreement with the expectation from standard model processes. The results are interpreted as limits on the dark matter production cross section in simplified models with vector, axial-vector, scalar, and pseudoscalar mediators. Interpretations in the context of fermion portal and nonthermal dark matter models are also provided. In addition, the results are interpreted in terms of invisible decays of the Higgs boson and set stringent limits on the fundamental Planck scale in the Arkani-Hamed, Dimopoulos, and Dvali model with large extra spatial dimensions.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the decay channel H → ZZ^(*)→ 4l with 4.8 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV with ATLAS. This Letter presents a search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the decay channel H->ZZ(*)->l+l-l'+l'-, where l,l'=e or mu, using proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s)=7 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.8 fb^-1. The four-lepton mass distribution is compared with Standard Model background expectations to derive upper limits on the cross section of a Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass between 110 GeV and 600 GeV which exclude the mass ranges 134-156 GeV, 182-233 GeV, 256-265 GeV and 266-415 GeV at the 95% confidence level. The largest upward deviations from the background-only hypothesis are observed for Higgs boson masses of 125, 244 and 500 GeV with local significances of 2.1, 2.2 and 2.1 standard deviations, respectively. Once the look-elsewhere effect is considered, none of these excesses are significant.
Search for a Standard Model Higgs boson in the H → ZZ → l^+l^-νν decay channel with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy Standard Model Higgs boson decaying via H->ZZ->llnunu, where l=e,mu, is presented. It is based on proton-proton collision data at sqrt(s)=7 TeV, collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in the first half of 2011 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 1.04 fb^-1. The data are compared to the expected Standard Model backgrounds. The data and the combined background expectations are found to be in agreement and upper limits are placed on the Higgs boson production cross section over the entire mass window considered; in particular the production of a Standard Model Higgs boson is excluded in the region 340 < m_H < 450 GeV at the 95% confidence level.
Search for neutral Higgs at LEP 200.
Search for additional neutral MSSM Higgs bosons in the ττ final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is presented for additional neutral Higgs bosons in the ττ final state in proton-proton collisions at the LHC. The search is performed in the context of the minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model (MSSM), using the data collected with the CMS detector in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. To enhance the sensitivity to neutral MSSM Higgs bosons, the search includes production of the Higgs boson in association with b quarks. No significant deviation above the expected background is observed. Model-independent limits at 95% confidence level (CL) are set on the product of the branching fraction for the decay into τ leptons and the cross section for the production via gluon fusion or in association with b quarks. These limits range from 18 pb at 90 GeV to 3.5 fb at 3.2 TeV for gluon fusion and from 15 pb (at 90 GeV) to 2.5 fb (at 3.2 TeV) for production in association with b quarks, assuming a narrow width resonance. In the m_h^mod+ scenario these limits translate into a 95% CL exclusion of tanβ   gt; 6 for neutral Higgs boson masses below 250 GeV, where tanβ is the ratio of the vacuum expectation values of the neutral components of the two Higgs doublets. The 95% CL exclusion contour reaches 1.6 TeV for tanβ= 60.
Measurement of the top quark Yukawa coupling from tt̅ kinematic distributions in the dilepton final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A measurement of the Higgs boson Yukawa coupling to the top quark is presented using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1, recorded with the CMS detector. The coupling strength with respect to the standard model value, Y_t, is determined from kinematic distributions in tt̅ final states containing ee, μμ, or eμ pairs. Variations of the Yukawa coupling strength lead to modified distributions for tt̅ production. In particular, the distributions of the mass of the tt̅ system and the rapidity difference of the top quark and antiquark are sensitive to the value of Y_t. The measurement yields a best fit value of Y_t = 1.16^+0.24_-0.35, bounding Y_t  < 1.54 at a 95% confidence level.
Search for tt̅H production in the H→bb̅ decay channel with leptonic tt̅ decays in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for the associated production of a standard model Higgs boson with a top quark-antiquark pair (tt̅H), in which the Higgs boson decays into a b quark-antiquark pair, in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 recorded with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC. Candidate tt̅H events are selected that contain either one or two electrons or muons from the tt̅ decays and are categorised according to the number of jets. Multivariate techniques are employed to further classify the events and eventually discriminate between signal and background. The results are characterised by an observed tt̅H signal strength relative to the standard model cross section, μ = σ/σ_SM, under the assumption of a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV. A combined fit of multivariate discriminant distributions in all categories results in an observed (expected) upper limit on μ of 1.5 (0.9) at 95% confidence level, and a best fit value of 0.72 ± 0.24 (stat) ± 0.38 (syst), corresponding to an observed (expected) signal significance of 1.6 (2.2) standard deviations above the background-only hypothesis.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model in e^+ e^- interactions at √(s) = 130-183 GeV. A search for the lightest neutral scalar and neutral pseudoscalar Higgs bosons in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model is performed on data collected at LEP by the L3 detector at center-of-mass energies 130 GeV <= Sqrt(s) <= 183 GeV. No significant excess of events is observed. Limits on the masses of the lightest neutral and pseudoscalar Higgs bosons are given as a function of tan(beta). Lower mass limits at the 95% confidence level are set at mh > 70.7 GeV and mA > 71.0 GeV.
CP Properties of Higgs Boson Interactions with Top Quarks in the ttH and tH Processes Using H → γγ with the ATLAS Detector. A study of the CP properties of the interaction between the Higgs boson and top quarks is presented. Higgs bosons are identified via the diphoton decay channel (H →γγ) and their production in association with a top quark pair (tt̅H) or single top quark (tH) is studied. The analysis uses 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. It is performed using a fit to the diphoton invariant mass m_γγ distribution in events categorized using two independent boosted decision trees. Twelve categories are used for events where top quarks decay hadronically and eight for events where at least one top quark decays leptonically. Assuming a CP-even coupling, the tt̅H process is observed with a significance of 5.2 standard deviations. The tH production process is not observed and an upper limit on its rate of 12 times the Standard Model expectation is set. A CP-mixing angle greater than 43^∘ is excluded at 95% confidence level.
Precise Determination of the Z Resonance Parameters at LEP : Zedometry. This final analysis of hadronic and leptonic cross-sections and of leptonic forward-backward asymmetries in e+e- collisions with the OPAL detector makes use of the full LEP1 data sample comprising 161 pb^-1 of integrated luminosity and 4.5 x 10^6 selected Z decays. An interpretation of the data in terms of contributions from pure Z exchange and from Z-gamma interference allows the parameters of the Z resonance to be determined in a model-independent way. Our results are in good agreement with lepton universality and consistent with the vector and axial-vector couplings predicted in the Standard Model. A fit to the complete dataset yields the fundamental Z resonance parameters: mZ = 91.1852 +- 0.0030 GeV, GZ = 2.4948 +- 0.0041 GeV, s0h = 41.501 +- 0.055 nb, Rl = 20.823 +- 0.044, and Afb0l = 0.0145 +- 0.0017. Transforming these parameters gives a measurement of the ratio between the decay width into invisible particles and the width to a single species of charged lepton, Ginv/Gl = 5.942 +- 0.027. Attributing the entire invisible width to neutrino decays and assuming the Standard Model couplings for neutrinos, this translates into a measurement of the effective number of light neutrino species, N_nu = 2.984 +- 0.013. Interpreting the data within the context of the Standard Model allows the mass of the top quark, mt = 162 +29-16 GeV, to be determined through its influence on radiative corrections. Alternatively, utilising the direct external measurement of mt as an additional constraint leads to a measurement of the strong coupling constant and the mass of the Higgs boson: alfa_s(mZ) = 0.127 +- 0.005 and mH = 390 +750-280 GeV.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with top quarks and decaying into bb̅ in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with a pair of top quarks, tt̅H, is presented. The analysis uses 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV, collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider during 2012. The search is designed for the H to bb̅ decay mode and uses events containing one or two electrons or muons. In order to improve the sensitivity of the search, events are categorised according to their jet and b-tagged jet multiplicities. A neural network is used to discriminate between signal and background events, the latter being dominated by tt̅+jets production. In the single-lepton channel, variables calculated using a matrix element method are included as inputs to the neural network to improve discrimination of the irreducible tt̅+bb̅ background. No significant excess of events above the background expectation is found and an observed (expected) limit of 3.4 (2.2) times the Standard Model cross section is obtained at 95% confidence level. The ratio of the measured tt̅H signal cross section to the Standard Model expectation is found to be μ = 1.5 ± 1.1 assuming a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV.
Direct Observation of Longitudinally Polarised W^± Bosons. The three different helicity states of W bosons, produced in the reaction e^+e^- → W^+W^- →ℓν q qare studied using leptonic and hadronic W decaysat √(s) = 183 GeV and 189 GeV. The W polarisation is also measured as a function of the scattering angle between the W^- and the direction of the e^- beam. The analysis demonstrates that W bosons are produced with all three helicities, the longitudinal and the two transverse states.Combining the results from the two center–of–mass energies and with leptonic and hadronic Wdecays, the fraction of longitudinally polarised W bosons ismeasured to be 0.261 ± 0.051(stat.) ± 0.016(syst.) in agreement with the expectation from the Standard Model.
Search for a massive diphoton resonance at √(s) = 91-172 GeV. A search for the resonant production of high mass photon pairs associated with a leptonic or hadronic system has been performed using a total data sample of 25.7 pb^-1 taken at centre-of-mass energies between 130 GeV and 172 GeV with the OPAL detector at LEP. The observed number of events is consistent with the expected number from Standard Model processes. The observed candidates are combined with search results from sqrts M_Z to place limits on Br(H^0 -> gamma gamma) within the Standard Model for Higgs boson masses up to 77 GeV, and on the production cross section of any scalar resonance decaying into di-photons. Upper limits on Br(H^0 -> gamma gamma) x sigma(e^+e^- -> H^0 Z^0) of 290 - 830 fb are obtained over 40 < M_H < 160 GeV. Type-I two-Higgs-doublet scalars which couple only to gauge bosons are ruled out up to a mass of 76.5 GeV at the 95% confidence level.
Observation of Z decays to four leptons with the CMS detector at the LHC. The first observation of the Z boson decaying to four leptons in proton-proton collisions is presented. The analyzed data set corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 5.02 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 7 TeV collected by the CMS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. A pronounced resonance peak, with a statistical significance of 9.7 σ, is observed in the distribution of the invariant mass of four leptons (electrons and/or muons) with mass and width consistent with expectations for Z boson decays. The branching fraction and cross section reported here are defined by phase space restrictions on the leptons, namely, 80 < m_4l < 100 GeV, where m_4l is the invariant mass of the four leptons, and mll > 4 GeV for all pairs of leptons, where m_ll is the two-lepton invariant mass. The measured branching fraction is B(Z → 4l) = (4.2^+0.9_-0.8 (stat.) ± 0.2 (syst.)) 10E-6 and agrees with the standard model prediction of 4.45 10E-6. The measured cross section times branching fraction is σ(pp → Z) B(Z → 4l) = 112^+23_-20 (stat.) ^+7_-5 (syst.) ^+3_-2 (lumi.) fb, also consistent with the standard model prediction of 120 fb. The four-lepton mass peak arising from Z → 4l decays provides a calibration channel for the Higgs boson search in the H → ZZ → 4l decay mode.
Search for an invisibly-decaying Higgs boson at LEP. A search for a Higgs boson produced in e^+e^- collisions in association with a Z boson and decaying into invisible particles is performed. Data collected at LEP with the L3 detector at centre-of-mass energies from 189 GeV to 209 GeV are used, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 0.63/fb. Events with hadrons, electrons or muons with visible masses compatible with a Z boson and missing energy and momentum are selected. They are consistent with the Standard Model expectations. A lower limit of 112.3 GeV is set at 95% confidence level on the mass of the invisibly-decaying Higgs boson in the hypothesis that its production cross section equals that of the Standard Model Higgs boson. Relaxing this hypothesis, upper limits on the production cross section are derived.
Measurement of the production cross section for a Higgs boson in association with a vector boson in the H → WW^∗→ℓνℓν channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A measurement of the Higgs boson production cross sections  via associated WH and ZH production using H → WW^∗→ℓνℓν decays,  where ℓ stands for either an electron or a muon,  is presented. Results for combined WH and ZH production are also presented. The analysis uses events produced in proton-proton collisions collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in 2015 and 2016. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The products of the H → WW^∗ branching fraction times the WH and ZH cross sections are measured to be 0.67^+0.31_-0.27(stat.)^+0.18_-0.14(syst.) pb and 0.54^+0.31_-0.24(stat.)^+0.15_-0.07(syst.) pb respectively, in agreement with the Standard Model predictions.
Limits on Higgs boson masses from combining the data of the four LEP experiments at √(s)≤ 183 GeV.
Search for anomalous couplings in the Higgs sector at LEP. We search for a Higgs particle with anomalous couplings in the e^+e^-→Hγ, e^+e^-→HZ and e^+e^-→He^+e ^- processes with the L3 detector at LEP. We explore the mass range 70 GeV < m_H < 170 GeV using 176 pb^-1 of integrated luminosity at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 189 GeV. The Higgs decays H→bb, H→γγ and H→ Zγ are considered in the analysis. No evidence for anomalous Higgs production is found. This is interpreted in terms of limits on the anomalous couplings d, d_B, Δ g_1^Z and Δκ_γ. Limits on the Γ(H→γγ) and Γ(H→Zγ) partial widths in the explored Higgs mass range are also obtained.
Test of CP invariance in vector-boson fusion production of the Higgs  boson in the H→ττ channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A test of CP invariance in Higgs boson production via vector-boson fusion is performed in the H→ττ decay channel. This test uses the Optimal Observable method and is carried out using 36.1 fb^-1 of √(s) = 13 TeV proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. Contributions from CP-violating interactions between the Higgs boson and electroweak gauge bosons are described by an effective field theory,  in which the parameter d̃ governs the strength of CP violation. No sign of CP violation is observed in the distributions of the Optimal Observable, and d̃ is constrained to the interval [-0.090, 0.035] at the 68% confidence level (CL), compared to an expected interval of d̃∈ [-0.035,0.033] based upon the Standard Model prediction. No constraints can be set on d̃ at 95% CL, while an expected 95% CL interval of d̃∈ [-0.21,0.15] for the Standard Model hypothesis was expected.
Search for dark matter particles produced in association with a Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for dark matter (DM) particles is performed using events with a Higgs boson candidate and large missing transverse momentum. The analysis is based on proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search is performed in five Higgs boson decay channels: h→bb̅, γγ, τ^+τ^-, W^+W^-, and ZZ and the results from the individual channels are combined to maximize the sensitivity of the analysis. No significant excess over the expected standard model background is observed in any of the five channels or in their combination. Limits are set on DM production in the context of two simplified models. The results are also interpreted in terms of a spin-independent DM-nucleon scattering cross section and compared to those from direct-detection DM experiments. This is the first search for DM particles produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to a pair of W or Z bosons, and the first statistical combination based on five Higgs boson decay channels.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson in e^+ e^- Collisions at √(s) = 161-172 GeV. This paper describes a search for the Standard Model Higgs boson using data from e^+e^- collisions collected at center-of-mass energies of 161, 170 and 172 GeV by the OPAL detector at LEP. The data collected at these energies correspond to integrated luminosities of 10.0, 1.0 and 9.4 pb^-1, respectively. The search is sensitive to the main final states from the process in which the Higgs boson is produced in association with a fermion anti-fermion pair, namely four jets, two jets with missing energy, and two jets produced together with a pair of electron, muon or tau leptons. One candidate event is observed, in agreement with the Standard Model background expectation. In combination with previous OPAL searches at center-of-mass energies close to the Z^0 resonance and the revised previous OPAL searches at 161 GeV, we derive a lower limit of 69.4 GeV for the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson at the 95% confidence level.
Search for pair production of higgsinos in final states with at least three b-tagged jets  in √(s) = 13 TeV pp collisions using the ATLAS detector. A search for pair production of the supersymmetric partners of the Higgs boson (higgsinos H̃) in gauge-mediated scenarios is reported. Each higgsino is assumed to decay to a Higgs boson and a gravitino. Two complementary analyses, targeting high- and low-mass signals, are performed to maximize sensitivity. The two analyses utilize LHC pp collision data at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV, the former with an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 and the latter with 24.3 fb^-1, collected with the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016. The search is performed in events containing missing transverse momentum and several energetic jets, at least three of which must be identified as b-quark jets. No significant excess is found above the predicted background. Limits on the cross-section are set as a function of the mass of the H̃ in simplified models assuming production via mass-degenerate higgsinos decaying to a Higgs boson and a gravitino. Higgsinos with masses between 130 and 230 GeV and between 290 and 880 GeV are excluded at the 95% confidence level.  Interpretations of the limits in terms of the branching ratio of the higgsino to a Z boson or a Higgs boson are also presented, and a 45% branching ratio to a Higgs boson is excluded for m_H̃≈ 400 GeV.
Search for Higgs and Z Boson Decays to J/ψγ and Υ(nS)γ with the ATLAS Detector. A search for the decays of the Higgs and Z bosons to J/ψγ and Υ(nS)γ (n=1,2,3) is performed with pp collision data samples corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 20.3fb^-1 collected at √(s)=8TeV with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess of events is observed above expected backgrounds and 95% CL upper limits are placed on the branching fractions. In the J/ψγ final state the limits are 1.5×10^-3 and 2.6×10^-6 for the Higgs and Z bosons, respectively, while in the Υ(1S,2S,3S) γ final states the limits are (1.3,1.9,1.3)×10^-3 and (3.4,6.5,5.4)×10^-6, respectively.
Search for the associated production of the Higgs boson and a vector boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV via Higgs boson decays to τ leptons. A search for the standard model Higgs boson, decaying to a pair of τ leptons and produced in association with a W or a Z boson is performed. A data sample of proton-proton collisions collected at √(s) = 13 TeV by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC is used, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The signal strength is measured relative to the expectation for the standard model Higgs boson, yielding μ = 2.5^+1.4 _-1.3. These results are combined with earlier CMS measurements targeting Higgs boson decays to a pair of τ leptons, performed with the same data set in the gluon fusion and vector boson fusion production modes. The combined signal strength is μ = 1.24^+0.29 _-0.27 (1.00^+0.24 _-0.23 expected), and the observed significance is 5.5 standard deviations (4.8 expected) for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV.
Search for heavy Higgs bosons decaying to a top quark pair in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for additional scalar (H) or pseudoscalar (A) Higgs bosons decaying to a top quark pair in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The data set analyzed corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC. Final states with one or two charged leptons are considered. The invariant mass of the reconstructed top quark pair system and variables that are sensitive to the spin of the particles decaying into the top quark pair are used to search for signatures of the H or A bosons. The interference with the standard model top quark pair background is taken into account. A moderate signal-like deviation compatible with an A boson with a mass of 400 GeV is observed with a global significance of 1.9 standard deviations. New stringent constraints are reported on the strength of the coupling of the hypothetical bosons to the top quark, with the mass of the bosons ranging from 400 to 750 GeV and their total relative width from 0.5 to 25%. The results of the search are also interpreted in a minimal supersymmetric standard model scenario. Values of m_A from 400 to 700 GeV are probed, and a region with values of tanβ below 1.0 to 1.5, depending on m_A, is excluded at 95% confidence level.
Combined search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A combined search for the Standard Model Higgs boson with the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. The datasets used correspond to integrated luminosities from 4.6 fb^-1 to 4.9 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions collected at √(s) = 7 TeV in 2011. The Higgs boson mass ranges of 111.4 GeV to 116.6 GeV, 119.4 GeV to 122.1 GeV, and 129.2 GeV to 541 GeV are excluded at the 95% confidence level, while the range 120 GeV to 560 GeV is expected to be excluded in the absence of a signal. An excess of events is observed at Higgs boson mass hypotheses around 126 GeV with a local significance of 2.9 standard deviations (σ). The global probability for the background to produce an excess at least as significant anywhere in the entire explored Higgs boson mass range of 110-600 GeV is estimated to be  15%, corresponding to a significance of approximately one sigma.
Study of the fragmentation of b quarks into B mesons at the Z peak. The fragmentation of b quarks into B mesons is studied with four million hadronic Z decays collected by the ALEPH experiment during the years 1991-1995. A semi-exclusive reconstruction of B->l nu D(*) decays is performed, by combining lepton candidates with fully reconstructed D(*) mesons while the neutrino energy is estimated from the missing energy of the event. The mean value of xewd, the energy of the weakly-decaying B meson normalised to the beam energy, is found to be mxewd = 0.716 +- 0.006 (stat) +- 0.006 (syst) using a model-independent method; the corresponding value for the energy of the leading B meson is mxel = 0.736 +- 0.006 (stat) +- 0.006 (syst). The reconstructed spectra are compared with different fragmentation models.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons decaying to μ^+μ^- in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV. A search for neutral Higgs bosons predicted in the minimal supersymmetric standard model (MSSM) for μ^+μ^- decay channels is presented. The analysis uses data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at centre-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 and 19.3 fb^-1, respectively. The search is sensitive to Higgs bosons produced through the gluon fusion process and in association with a bb quark pair. No statistically significant excess is observed in the μ^+μ^- mass spectrum. Results are interpreted in the framework of several benchmark scenarios, and the data are used to set an upper limit on the MSSM parameter tanβ as a function of the mass of the pseudoscalar A boson in the range from 115 to 300 GeV. Model independent upper limits are given for the product of the cross section and branching fraction for gluon fusion and b quark associated production. They are the most stringent limits obtained to date in this channel.
Search for top quark decays t → qH, with H→γγ, in √(s) = 13 TeV pp collisions using the ATLAS detector. This article presents a search for flavour-changing neutral currents in the decay of a top quark into an up-type (q = c, u) quark and a Higgs boson, where the Higgs boson decays into two photons. The proton–proton collision data set analysed amounts to 36.1 fb^-1 at √(s) = 13 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. Top quark pair events are searched for, where one top quark decays into qH and the other decays into bW. Both the hadronic and leptonic decay modes of the W boson are used. No significant excess is observed and an upper limit is set on the t → cH branching ratio of 2.2× 10^-3 at the 95% confidence level, while the expected limit in the absence of signal is 1.6 × 10^-3. The corresponding limit on the tcH coupling is 0.090 at the 95% confidence level. The observed upper limit on the t → uH branching ratio is 2.4 × 10^-3.
Search for the decay of a Higgs boson in the ℓℓγ channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for a Higgs boson decaying into a pair of electrons or muons and a photon is described. Higgs boson decays to a Z boson and a photon (H→Zγ→ℓℓγ, ℓ=e or μ), or to two photons, one of which has an internal conversion into a muon pair (H→γ^*γ→μμγ) were considered. The analysis is performed using a data set recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. No significant excess above the background prediction has been found. Limits are set on the cross section for a standard model Higgs boson decaying to opposite-sign electron or muon pairs and a photon. The observed limits on cross section times the corresponding branching fractions vary between 1.4 and 4.0 (6.1 and 11.4) times the standard model cross section for H→γ^*γ→μμγ (H→Zγ→ℓℓγ) in the 120-130 GeV mass range of the ℓℓγ system. The H→γ^*γ→μμγ and H→Zγ→ℓℓγ analyses are combined for m_H = 125 GeV, obtaining an observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper limit of 3.9 (2.0) times the standard model cross section.
Identification techniques for highly boosted W bosons that decay into hadrons. In searches for new physics in the energy regime of the LHC, it is becoming increasingly important to distinguish single-jet objects that originate from the merging of the decay products of W bosons produced with high transverse momenta from jets initiated by single partons. Algorithms are defined to identify such W jets for different signals of interest, using techniques that are also applicable to other decays of bosons to hadrons that result in a single jet, such as those from highly boosted Z and Higgs bosons. The efficiency for tagging W jets is measured in data collected with the CMS detector at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The performance of W tagging in data is compared with predictions from several Monte Carlo simulators.
Search for a new scalar resonance decaying to a pair of Z bosons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for a new scalar resonance decaying to a pair of Z bosons is performed in the mass range from 130 GeV to 3 TeV, and for various width scenarios. The analysis is based on proton-proton collisions recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The Z boson pair decays are reconstructed using the 4ℓ, 2ℓ2q, and 2ℓ2ν final states, where ℓ = e or μ. Both gluon fusion and electroweak production of the scalar resonance are considered, with a free parameter describing their relative cross sections. A dedicated categorization of events, based on the kinematic properties of associated jets, and matrix element techniques are employed for an optimal signal and background separation. A description of the interference between signal and background amplitudes for a resonance of an arbitrary width is included. No significant excess of events with respect to the standard model expectation is observed and limits are set on the product of the cross section for a new scalar boson and the branching fraction for its decay to ZZ for a large range of masses and widths.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in e^+ e^- interactions at √(s) = 189 GeV. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson is carried out on 176.4 pb^-1 of data collected by the L3 detector at a center-of-mass energy of 189 Ge -0.1em V. The data are consistent with the expectations of Standard Model processes and no evidence of a Higgs signal is observed. Combining the results of this search with those at lower center-of-mass energies, a lower limit on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson of 95.3 Ge -0.1em V is set at the 95% confidence level.
Search for dark matter produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to two bottom quarks in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This article reports on a search for dark matter pair production in association with a Higgs boson decaying to a pair of bottom quarks, using data from 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The decay of the Higgs boson is reconstructed as a high-momentum bb̅ system with either a pair of small-radius jets, or a single large-radius jet with substructure.  The observed data are found to be consistent with the expected Standard Model backgrounds. Model-independent upper limits are placed on the visible cross-sections for events with a Higgs boson decaying into bb̅ and large missing transverse momentum with thresholds ranging from 150 GeV to 400 GeV. Results are interpreted using a simplified model with a Z^' gauge boson decaying into different Higgs bosons predicted in a two-Higgs-doublet model,  of which the heavy pseudoscalar Higgs decays into a pair of dark matter particles.  Exclusion limits are also presented for the mass scales of various effective field theory operators that describe the interaction between dark matter particles and the Higgs boson.
Study of Fermion Pair Production in e^+e^- Collisions at 130-183 GeV. The cross sections and forward-backward asymmetries of hadronic and leptonic events produced in e+e- collisions at centre-of-mass energies of 130-183 GeV are presented. Results for ee, mumu, tautau, qq, bb and cc production show no significant deviation from the Standard Model predictions. This enable constraints to be set upon physics beyond the Standard Model such as four-fermion contact interactions, leptoquarks, Z' bosons and R-parity violating squarks and sneutrinos. Limits on the energy scale Lambda of eeff contact interactions are typically in the range from 2-10 TeV. Limits on R-parity violating sneutrinos reach masses of a few hundred GeV for large values of their Yukawa couplings.
Search for resonances decaying into a weak vector boson and a Higgs boson in the fully hadronic final state produced in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy resonances decaying into a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson produced in proton-proton collisions at the Large Hadron Collider at √(s) = 13 TeV is presented. The analysis utilizes the dominant W → q q̅^' or Z → q q̅ and H → b b̅ decays with substructure techniques applied to large-radius jets. A sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector is analyzed and no significant excess of data is observed over the background prediction. The results are interpreted in the context of the Heavy Vector Triplet model with spin-1 W^' and Z^' bosons. Upper limits on the cross section are set for resonances with mass between 1.5 and 5.0 TeV, ranging from 6.8 to 0.53 fb for W^'→ WH and from 8.7 to 0.53 fb for Z^'→ ZH at the 95% confidence level.
Search for invisible decays of a Higgs boson produced in association with a Z boson in ATLAS. A search for evidencevector-boson of invisible-particle decay modes of a Higgs boson produced in association with a Z boson at the Large Hadron Collider is presented. No deviation from the Standard Model expectation is observed in 4.5 fb^−1 (20.3 fb^−1) of 7 (8) TeV pp collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment. Assuming the Standard Model rate for ZH production, an upper limit of 75%, at the 95% confidence level is set on the branching ratio to invisible-particle decay modes of the Higgs boson at a mass of 125.5 GeV. The limit on the branching ratio is also interpreted in terms of an upper limit on the allowed dark matter–nucleon scattering cross section within a Higgs-portal dark matter scenario. Limits are also set on an additional neutral Higgs boson, in the mass range 110 < m_H < 400 GeV, produced in association with a Z boson and decaying to invisible particles.
Summary of the searches for squarks and gluinos using √(s) = 8 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. A summary is presented of ATLAS searches for gluinos and first- and second-generation squarks in final states containing jets and missing transverse momentum, with or without leptons or b-jets, in the √(s) = 8 TeV data set collected at the Large Hadron Collider in 2012. This paper reports the results of new interpretations and statistical combinations of previously published analyses, as well as a new analysis.  Since no significant excess of events over the Standard Model expectation is observed, the data are used to set limits in a variety of models.   In all the considered simplified models that assume R-parity conservation, the limit on the gluino mass exceeds 1150 GeV at 95% confidence level, for an LSP mass smaller than 100 GeV. Furthermore, exclusion limits are set for left-handed squarks in a phenomenological MSSM model, a minimal Supergravity/Constrained MSSM model, R-parity-violation scenarios, a minimal gauge-mediated supersymmetry breaking model, a natural gauge mediation model, a non-universal Higgs mass model with gaugino mediation and a minimal model of universal extra dimensions.
Search for long-lived particles using displaced jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. An inclusive search is presented for long-lived particles using displaced jets. The search uses a data sample collected with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC in 2017 and 2018, from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The results of this search are combined with those of a previous search using a data sample collected with the CMS detector in 2016, yielding a total integrated luminosity of 132 fb^-1. The analysis searches for the distinctive topology of displaced tracks and displaced vertices associated with a dijet system. For a simplified model, where pair-produced long-lived neutral particles decay into quark-antiquark pairs, pair production cross sections larger than 0.07 fb are excluded at 95% confidence level (CL) for long-lived particle masses larger than 500 GeV and mean proper decay lengths between 2 and 250 mm. For a model where the standard model-like Higgs boson decays to two long-lived scalar particles that each decays to a quark-antiquark pair, branching fractions larger than 1% are excluded at 95% CL for mean proper decay lengths between 1 mm and 340 mm. A group of supersymmetric models with pair-produced long-lived gluinos or top squarks decaying into various final-state topologies containing displaced jets is also tested. Gluino masses up to 2500 GeV and top squark masses up to 1600 GeV are excluded at 95% CL for mean proper decay lengths between 3 and 300 mm. The highest lower bounds on mass reach 2600 GeV for long-lived gluinos and 1800 GeV for long-lived top squarks. These are the most stringent limits to date on these models.
Study of (W/Z)H production and Higgs boson couplings using H → WW^∗ decays with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson production in association with a W or Z boson, in the H → WW^∗ decay channel, is performed with a data sample collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at centre-of-mass energies √(s)=7 TeV and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 4.5 fb^-1 and 20.3 fb^-1, respectively. The WH production mode is studied in two-lepton and three-lepton final states, while two-lepton and four-lepton final states are used to search for the ZH production mode. The observed significance, for the combined WH and ZH production, is 2.5 standard deviations while a significance of 0.9 standard deviations is expected in the Standard Model Higgs boson hypothesis. The ratio of the combined WH and ZH signal yield to the Standard Model expectation, μ_VH, is found to be μ_VH =3.0^+1.3_-1.1 ( stat.)^+1.0_-0.7 ( sys.) for the Higgs boson mass of 125.36 GeV. The WH and ZH production modes are also combined with the gluon fusion and vector boson fusion production modes studied in the H → WW^* →ℓνℓν decay channel, resulting in an overall observed significance of 6.5 standard deviations and μ_ ggF+VBF+VH = 1.16^+0.16_-0.15 (stat.)^+0.18_-0.15 (sys.). The results are interpreted in terms of scaling factors of the Higgs boson couplings to vector bosons (k_V) and fermions (k_F); the combined results are: |κ_V| = 1.06^+0.10_-0.10, |κ_F| = 0.85^+0.26_-0.20.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model in e^+ e^- interactions at √(s) = 130-183 GeV. A search for the lightest neutral scalar and neutral pseudoscalar Higgs bosons in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model is performed on data collected at LEP by the L3 detector at center-of-mass energies 130 GeV <= Sqrt(s) <= 183 GeV. No significant excess of events is observed. Limits on the masses of the lightest neutral and pseudoscalar Higgs bosons are given as a function of tan(beta). Lower mass limits at the 95% confidence level are set at mh > 70.7 GeV and mA > 71.0 GeV.
Search for a Multi-Higgs Boson Cascade in W^+W^− bb̅ events with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √s = 8 TeV. A search is presented for new particles in an extension to the Standard Model that includes a heavy Higgs boson (H^0), an intermediate charged Higgs boson (H±), and a light Higgs boson (h^0). The analysis searches for events involving the production of a single heavy neutral Higgs boson which decays to the charged Higgs boson and a W boson, where the charged Higgs boson subsequently decays into a W boson and the lightest neutral Higgs boson decaying to a bottom-antibottom-quark pair. Such a cascade results in a W-boson pair and a bottom–antibottom-quark pair in the final state. Events with exactly one lepton, missing transverse momentum, and at least four jets are selected from a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1, collected by the ATLAS detector in proton-proton collisions at √s = 8 TeV at the LHC. The data are found to be consistent with Standard Model predictions, and 95% confidence level upper limits are set on the product of cross-section and branching ratio. These limits range from 0.065 pb to 43 pb as a function of H^0 and H± masses, with m_h0 fixed at 125 GeV.
Search for dark matter in association with a Higgs boson decaying to two photons at √(s)= 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for dark matter in association with a Higgs boson decaying to two photons is presented. This study is based on data collected with the ATLAS detector, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of proton–proton collisions at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV in 2015 and 2016. No significant excess over the expected background is observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the visible cross section for beyond the Standard Model physics processes, and the production cross section times branching fraction of the Standard Model Higgs boson decaying into two photons in association with missing transverse momentum in three different benchmark models. Limits at 95% confidence level are also set on the observed signal in two-dimensional mass planes. Additionally, the results are interpreted in terms of 90% confidence-level limits on the dark-matter–nucleon scattering cross section, as a function of the dark-matter particle mass, for a spin-independent scenario.
Search for anomalous production of events with three or more leptons in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV. A search for physics beyond the standard model in events with at least three leptons is presented. The data sample, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 inverse femtobarns of proton-proton collisions with center-of-mass energy √(s) = 8 TeV, was collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC during 2012. The data are divided into exclusive categories based on the number of leptons and their flavor, the presence or absence of an opposite-sign, same-flavor lepton pair (OSSF), the invariant mass of the OSSF pair, the presence or absence of a tagged bottom-quark jet, the number of identified hadronically decaying tau leptons, and the magnitude of the missing transverse energy and of the scalar sum of jet transverse momenta. The numbers of observed events are found to be consistent with the expected numbers from standard model processes, and limits are placed on new-physics scenarios that yield multilepton final states. In particular, scenarios that predict Higgs boson production in the context of supersymmetric decay chains are examined. We also place a 95% confidence level upper limit of 1.3% on the branching fraction for the decay of a top quark to a charm quark and a Higgs boson (t → cH), which translates to a bound on the left- and right-handed top-charm flavor-violating Higgs Yukawa couplings, λ^H_tc and λ^H_ct, respectively, of √(abs(λ^H_tc)^2 + abs(λ^H_ct)^2)) 0.21.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson in e^+ e^- Collisions at √(s) = 161 GeV.
Cross-section measurements of the Higgs boson decaying into a pair of τ-leptons in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A measurement of production cross sections of the Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions is presented in the H→ττ decay channel. The analysis is performed using 36.1 fb^-1 of data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of √(s)=13 TeV. All combinations of leptonic (τ→ l νν̅ with l = e, μ) and hadronic (τ→ hadrons ν) tau decays are considered. The H→ττ signal over the expected background from other Standard Model processes is established with an observed (expected) significance of 4.4 (4.1) standard deviations. Combined with results obtained using data taken at 7 and 8 TeV center-of-mass energies, the observed (expected) significance amounts to 6.4 (5.4) standard deviations and constitutes an observation of H→ττ decays. Using the data taken at √(s)=13 TeV, the total cross section in the H→ττ decay channel is measured to be 3.77^+0.60_-0.59(stat.)^+0.87_-0.74(syst.) pb, for a Higgs boson of mass 125 GeV assuming the relative contributions of its production modes as predicted by the Standard Model. Total cross sections in the H→ττ decay channel are determined separately for vector-boson-fusion production and gluon-gluon-fusion production to be 0.28 ± 0.09(stat.)^+0.11_-0.09(syst.) pb and 3.1 ± 1.0(stat.)^+1.6_-1.3(syst.) pb, respectively. Similarly, results of a fit are reported in the framework of simplified template cross sections. All measurements are in agreement with Standard Model expectations.
Measurement of exclusive γγ→ W^+W^- production and search for exclusive Higgs boson production in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV using the ATLAS detector. Searches for exclusively produced W boson pairs in the process pp(γγ) → pW^+W^-p and exclusively produced Higgs boson in the process pp(gg) → pHp have been performed using e^±μ^∓ final states. These measurements use 20.2 fb^-1 of pp collisions collected by the ATLAS experiment at a center-of-mass energy √(s)=8 TeV at the LHC. Exclusive production of W^+W^- consistent with the Standard Model prediction is found with 3.0σ significance. The exclusive W^+W^- production cross-section is determined to be σ (γγ→ W^+W^-→ e^±μ^∓ X) = 6.9 ± 2.2 (stat.) ± 1.4 (sys.) fb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction. Limits on anomalous quartic gauge couplings are set at 95% confidence-level as -1.7 × 10^-6 < a_0^W/Λ^2 < 1.7 × 10^-6 GeV^-2and -6.4 × 10^-6 < a_C^W/Λ^2 < 6.3 × 10^-6 GeV^-2. A 95% confidence-level upper limit on the total production cross-section for exclusive Higgs boson is set to 1.2 pb.
Search for heavy resonances decaying into a vector boson and a Higgs boson in final states with charged leptons, neutrinos, and b quarks. A search for heavy resonances decaying to a Higgs boson and a vector boson is presented. The analysis is performed using data samples collected in 2015 by the CMS experiment at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 2.2-2.5 fb^-1. The search is performed in channels in which the vector boson decays into leptonic final states (Z→νν, W →ℓν, and Z→ℓℓ, with ℓ = e, μ), while the Higgs boson decays to collimated b quark pairs detected as a single massive jet. The discriminating power of a jet mass requirement and a b jet tagging algorithm are exploited to suppress the standard model backgrounds. The event yields observed in data are consistent with the background expectation. In the context of a theoretical model with a heavy vector triplet, a resonance with mass less than 2 TeV is excluded at 95% confidence level. The results are also interpreted in terms of limits on the parameters of the model, improving on the reach of previous searches.
Observation of Z decays to four leptons with the CMS detector at the LHC. The first observation of the Z boson decaying to four leptons in proton-proton collisions is presented. The analyzed data set corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 5.02 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 7 TeV collected by the CMS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. A pronounced resonance peak, with a statistical significance of 9.7 σ, is observed in the distribution of the invariant mass of four leptons (electrons and/or muons) with mass and width consistent with expectations for Z boson decays. The branching fraction and cross section reported here are defined by phase space restrictions on the leptons, namely, 80 < m_4l < 100 GeV, where m_4l is the invariant mass of the four leptons, and mll > 4 GeV for all pairs of leptons, where m_ll is the two-lepton invariant mass. The measured branching fraction is B(Z → 4l) = (4.2^+0.9_-0.8 (stat.) ± 0.2 (syst.)) 10E-6 and agrees with the standard model prediction of 4.45 10E-6. The measured cross section times branching fraction is σ(pp → Z) B(Z → 4l) = 112^+23_-20 (stat.) ^+7_-5 (syst.) ^+3_-2 (lumi.) fb, also consistent with the standard model prediction of 120 fb. The four-lepton mass peak arising from Z → 4l decays provides a calibration channel for the Higgs boson search in the H → ZZ → 4l decay mode.
Searches for heavy ZZ and ZW resonances in the ℓℓ qq and νν qq final states in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This paper reports searches for heavy resonances decaying into ZZ or ZW using data from proton–proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=13 TeV. The data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1, were recorded with the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016 at the Large Hadron Collider. The searches are performed in final states in which one Z boson decays into either a pair of light charged leptons (electrons and muons) or a pair of neutrinos, and the associated W boson or the other Z boson decays hadronically. No evidence of the production of heavy resonances is observed. Upper bounds on the production cross sections of heavy resonances times their decay branching ratios to ZZ or ZW are derived in the mass range 300–5000 GeV within the context of Standard Model extensions with additional Higgs bosons, a heavy vector triplet or warped extra dimensions. Production through gluon–gluon fusion, Drell–Yan or vector-boson fusion are considered, depending on the assumed model.
Search for Charged Higgs bosons: Combined Results Using LEP data. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have searched for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons in the framework of Two Higgs Doublet Models (2HDMs). The data of the four experiments are statistically combined. The results are interpreted within the 2HDM for Type I and Type II benchmark scenarios. No statistically significant excess has been observed when compared to the Standard Model background prediction, and the combined LEP data exclude large regions of the model parameter space. Charged Higgs bosons with mass below 80 GeV/c^2 (Type II scenario) or 72.5 GeV/c^2 (Type I scenario, for pseudo-scalar masses above 12 GeV/c^2) are excluded at the 95% confidence level.
Search for the Single Production of Doubly-Charged Higgs Bosons and Constraints on their Couplings from Bhabha Scattering. A search for single production of doubly-charged Higgs bosons has been performed using 600.7 pb^-1 of e+e- collision data with sqrt(s)=189–209GeV collected by the OPAL detector at LEP. No evidence for the existence of H++/– is observed. Upper limits on the Yukawa coupling of the H++/– to like-signed electron pairs are derived. Additionally, indirect constraints on the Yukawa coupling from Bhabha scattering, where the H++/– would contribute via t-channel exchange, are derived for M(H++/–) < 2TeV. These are the first results for both a single production search and constraints from Bhabha scattering reported from LEP.
Search for direct production of electroweakinos in final states with  missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson decaying into photons in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a chargino-neutralino pair decaying via the 125 GeV Higgs boson into photons is presented. The study is based on the data collected between 2015 and 2018 with the ATLAS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. No significant excess over the expected background is observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level for a massless χ̃^0_1 are set on several electroweakino production cross-sections and the visible cross-section for beyond the Standard Model processes. In the context of simplified supersymmetric models, 95% confidence-level limits of up to 310 GeV in m(χ̃^±_1/χ̃^0_2), where m(χ̃^0_1)=0.5 GeV, are set. Limits at 95% confidence level are also set on the χ̃^±_1χ̃^0_2 cross-section in the mass plane of m(χ̃^±_1/χ̃^0_2) and m(χ̃^0_1), and on scenarios with gravitino as the lightest supersymmetric particle. Upper limits at the 95% confidence-level are set on the higgsino production cross-section. Higgsino masses below 380 GeV are excluded for the case of the higgsino fully decaying into a Higgs boson and a gravitino.
Z boson pair production in e^+e^- collisions at √(s) = 183 and 189 GeV. A study of Z boson pair production in e+e- annihilation at center-of-mass energies near 183 GeV and 189 GeV is reported. Final states containing only leptons, (l+l-l+l- and l+l-nu nubar), quark and lepton pairs, (q qbar l+l-, q qbar nu nubar) and the all-hadronic final state (q qbar q qbar) are considered. In all states with at least one Z boson decaying hadronically, q qbar and b bbar final states are considered separately using lifetime and event-shape tags, thereby improving the cross-section measurement. At sqrt(s) = 189 GeV the Z-pair cross section was measured to be 0.80 (+0.14-0.13, stat.) (+0.06-0.05, syst.) pb, consistent with the Standard Model prediction. At sqrt(s) = 183 GeV the 95.L. upper limit is 0.55 pb. Limits on anomalous ZZgamma and ZZZ couplings are derived.
Search for the Decay of the Higgs Boson to Charm Quarks with the ATLAS Experiment. A direct search for the Standard Model Higgs boson decaying to a pair of charm quarks is presented. Associated production of the Higgs and Z bosons, in the decay mode ZH→ℓ^+ ℓ^- c c̅ is studied. A dataset with an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC is used. The H→ cc̅ signature is identified using charm-tagging algorithms. The observed (expected) upper limit on σ(pp → ZH) ×ℬ(H → cc̅) is 2.7 (3.9^+2.1_-1.1) pb at the 95% confidence level for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, while the Standard Model value is 26 fb.
Search for Higgs boson decays to a photon and a Z boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is reported for a neutral Higgs boson in the decay channel H → Zγ, Z → l^+ l^- (l = e,µ), using 4.5 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV, recorded by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The observed distribution of the invariant mass of the three final-state particles, m_llγ, is consistent with the Standard Model hypothesis in the investigated mass range of 120–150 GeV. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 125.5 GeV, the observed upper limit at the 95% confidence level is 11 times the Standard Model expectation. Upper limits are set on the cross section times branching ratio of a neutral Higgs boson with mass in the range 120–150 GeV between 0.13 and 0.5 pb for √(s) = 8 TeV at 95% confidence level.
Measurement of detector-corrected observables sensitive to the anomalous production of events with jets and large missing transverse momentum in pp collisions at √(𝐬)=13  TeV using the ATLAS detector. Observables sensitive to the anomalous production of events containing hadronic jets and missing momentum in the plane transverse to the proton beams at the Large Hadron Collider are presented. The observables are defined as a ratio of cross sections, for events containing jets and large missing transverse momentum to events containing jets and a pair of charged leptons from the decay of a Z/γ^∗ boson. This definition minimises experimental and theoretical systematic uncertainties in the measurements. This ratio is measured differentially with respect to a number of kinematic properties of the hadronic system in two phase-space regions; one inclusive single-jet region and one region sensitive to vector-boson-fusion topologies. The data are found to be in agreement with the Standard Model predictions and used to constrain a variety of theoretical models for dark-matter production, including simplified models, effective field theory models, and invisible decays of the Higgs boson. The measurements use 3.2 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and are fully corrected for detector effects, meaning that the data can be used to constrain new-physics models beyond those shown in this paper.
Search for Charged Higgs bosons: Combined Results Using LEP data. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have searched for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons in the framework of Two Higgs Doublet Models (2HDMs). The data of the four experiments are statistically combined. The results are interpreted within the 2HDM for Type I and Type II benchmark scenarios. No statistically significant excess has been observed when compared to the Standard Model background prediction, and the combined LEP data exclude large regions of the model parameter space. Charged Higgs bosons with mass below 80 GeV/c^2 (Type II scenario) or 72.5 GeV/c^2 (Type I scenario, for pseudo-scalar masses above 12 GeV/c^2) are excluded at the 95% confidence level.
Measurement of exclusive γγ→ W^+W^- production and search for exclusive Higgs boson production in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV using the ATLAS detector. Searches for exclusively produced W boson pairs in the process pp(γγ) → pW^+W^-p and exclusively produced Higgs boson in the process pp(gg) → pHp have been performed using e^±μ^∓ final states. These measurements use 20.2 fb^-1 of pp collisions collected by the ATLAS experiment at a center-of-mass energy √(s)=8 TeV at the LHC. Exclusive production of W^+W^- consistent with the Standard Model prediction is found with 3.0σ significance. The exclusive W^+W^- production cross-section is determined to be σ (γγ→ W^+W^-→ e^±μ^∓ X) = 6.9 ± 2.2 (stat.) ± 1.4 (sys.) fb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction. Limits on anomalous quartic gauge couplings are set at 95% confidence-level as -1.7 × 10^-6 < a_0^W/Λ^2 < 1.7 × 10^-6 GeV^-2and -6.4 × 10^-6 < a_C^W/Λ^2 < 6.3 × 10^-6 GeV^-2. A 95% confidence-level upper limit on the total production cross-section for exclusive Higgs boson is set to 1.2 pb.
Constraints on anomalous Higgs boson couplings using production and decay information in the four-lepton final state. A search is performed for anomalous interactions of the recently discovered Higgs boson using matrix element techniques with the information from its decay to four leptons and from associated Higgs boson production with two quark jets in either vector boson fusion or associated production with a vector boson. The data were recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 38.6 inverse femtobarns. These data are combined with the data collected at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 and 19.7 inverse femtobarns, respectively. All observations are consistent with the expectations for the standard model Higgs boson.
A deep neural network for simultaneous estimation of b jet energy and resolution. We describe a method to obtain point and dispersion estimates for the energies of jets arising from b quarks produced in proton-proton collisions at an energy of √(s) = 13 TeV at the CERN LHC. The algorithm is trained on a large simulated sample of b jets and validated on data recorded by the CMS detector in 2017 corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 41 fb^-1. A multivariate regression algorithm based on a deep feed-forward neural network employs jet composition and shape information, and the properties of reconstructed secondary vertices associated with the jet. The results of the algorithm are used to improve the sensitivity of analyses that make use of b jets in the final state, such as the observation of Higgs boson decay to bb̅.
Search for a heavy Higgs boson decaying into a Z boson and another heavy Higgs boson in the ℓℓ bb final state in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy neutral Higgs boson, A, decaying into a Z boson and another heavy Higgs boson, H, is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 from proton–proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016 by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The search considers the Z boson decaying to electrons or muons and the H boson into a pair of b-quarks. No evidence for the production of an A boson is found. Considering each production process separately, the 95% confidence-level upper limits on the pp→ A→ ZH production cross-section times the branching ratio H→ bb are in the range of 14–830 fb for the gluon–gluon fusion process and 26–570 fb for the b-associated process for the mass ranges 130–700 GeV of the H boson and process for the mass ranges 130–700 GeV of the H boson and 230–800 GeV of the A boson. The results are interpreted in the context of the two-Higgs-doublet model.
Search for non-resonant Higgs boson pair production in the  bbℓνℓν final state with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for non-resonant Higgs boson pair production, as predicted by the Standard Model, is presented, where one of the Higgs bosons decays via the H→ bb channel and the other via one of the H → WW^*/ZZ^*/ττ channels. The analysis selection requires events to have at least two b-tagged jets and exactly two leptons (electrons or muons) with opposite electric charge in the final state. Candidate events consistent with Higgs boson pair production are selected using a multi-class neural network discriminant. The analysis uses 139 fb^-1 of pp collision data recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. An observed (expected) upper limit of 1.2 (0.9^+0.4_-0.3) pb is set on the non-resonant Higgs boson pair production cross-section at 95% confidence level, which is equivalent to 40 (29^+14_-9) times the value predicted in the Standard Model.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons in CP-conserving and CP-violating MSSM scenarios. This report summarizes the final results from the OPAL collaboration on searches for neutral Higgs bosons predicted by the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). CP-conserving and for the first time at LEP CP-violating scenarios are studied. New scenarios are also included, which aim to set the stage for Higgs searches at future colliders. The results are based on the data collected with the OPAL detector at e+e- centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. The data are consistent with the prediction of the Standard Model with no Higgs boson produced. Model-independent limits are derived for the cross-section of a number of events topologies motivated by prediction of the MSSM. Limits on Higgs boson masses and other MSSM parameters are obtained for a number of representative MSSM benchmark scenarios. For example, in the CP-conserving scenario mh-max where the MSSM parameters are adjusted to predict the largest range of values for mh at each tan beta, and for a top quark mass of 174.3 GeV, the domain 0.7<tan beta<1.9 is excluded at the 95% confidence level and Higgs boson mass limits of mh>84.5 GeV and ma>85.0 GeV are obtained. For the CP-violating benchmark scenario CPX which, by construction, enhances the CP-violating effects in the Higgs sector, the domain tan beta<2.8 is excluded but no universal limit can be set on the Higgs boson masses.
Missing mass spectra in hadronic events from e^+ e^- collisions at √(s)=161-172 GeV and limits on invisible Higgs decays. Events characterised by large hadronic energy and transverse momentum are selected from the data collected by the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies between 161 and 172 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 21 pb^-1. The visible mass and the missing mass distributions of the selected events are consistent with those expected from Standard Model processes. This result is combined with that from data taken at the Z resonance to set an upper limit on the production rate and decay into invisible final states of a non-minimal Higgs boson, as a function of the Higgs mass. Assuming the non-minimal Higgs production cross section to be the same as for the Standard Model Higgs boson and the decay branching fraction into invisible final states to be 100%, a Higgs mass lower limit of 69.6 GeV is derived at 95% confidence level.
Evidence for the H → bb̅ decay with the ATLAS detector. A search for the decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson into a bb̅ pair when produced in association with a W or Z boson is performed with the ATLAS detector. The analysed data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1, were collected in proton-proton collisions in Run 2 of the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. Final states containing zero, one and two charged leptons (electrons or muons) are considered, targeting the decays Z→νν, W→ℓν and Z→ℓℓ. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, an excess of events over the expected background from other Standard Model processes is found with an observed significance of 3.5 standard deviations, compared to an expectation of 3.0 standard deviations. This excess provides evidence for the Higgs boson decay into b-quarks and for its production in association with a vector boson. The combination of this result with that of the Run 1 analysis yields a ratio of the measured signal events to the Standard Model expectation equal to 0.90 ± 0.18 (stat.) ^+0.21_-0.19(syst.). Assuming the Standard Model production cross-section, the results are consistent with the value of the Yukawa coupling to b-quarks in the Standard Model.
Constraints on the spin-parity and anomalous HVV couplings of the Higgs boson in proton collisions at 7 and 8 TeV. The study of the spin-parity and tensor structure of the interactions of the recently discovered Higgs boson is performed using the H→ZZ, Zγ^*, γ^*γ^* → 4ℓ, H→WW→ℓνℓν, and H→γγ decay modes. The full dataset recorded by the CMS experiment during the LHC Run 1 is used, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of up to 5.1 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV and up to 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV. A wide range of spin-two models is excluded at a 99% confidence level or higher, or at a 99.87% confidence level for the minimal gravity-like couplings, regardless of whether assumptions are made on the production mechanism. Any mixed-parity spin-one state is excluded in the ZZ and WW modes at a greater than 99.999% confidence level. Under the hypothesis that the resonance is a spin-zero boson, the tensor structure of the interactions of the Higgs boson with two vector bosons ZZ, Zγ, γγ, and WW is investigated and limits on eleven anomalous contributions are set. Tighter constraints on anomalous HVV interactions are obtained by combining the HZZ and HWW measurements. All observations are consistent with the expectations for the standard model Higgs boson with the quantum numbers J^PC=0^++.
Search for the associated production of the Higgs boson with a top quark pair in multilepton final states with the ATLAS detector. A search for the associated production of the Higgs boson with a top quark pair is performed in multilepton final states using 20.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at √(s)=8 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider. Five final states, targeting the decays H→ WW^*, ττ, and ZZ^*, are examined for the presence of the Standard Model (SM) Higgs boson: two same-charge light leptons (e or μ) without a hadronically decaying τ lepton; three light leptons; two same-charge light leptons with a hadronically decaying τ lepton; four light leptons; and one light lepton and two hadronically decaying τ leptons. No significant excess of events is observed above the background expectation. The best fit for the tt̅ H production cross section, assuming a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, is 2.1 ^+1.4_-1.2 times the SM expectation, and the observed (expected) upper limit at the 95% confidence level is 4.7 (2.4) times the SM rate. The p-value for compatibility with the background-only hypothesis is 1.8σ; the expectation in the presence of a Standard Model signal is 0.9σ.
Search for decays of the 125 GeV Higgs boson into a Z boson and a ρ or ϕ meson. Decays of the 125 GeV Higgs boson into a Z boson and a ρ^0(770) or ϕ(1020) meson are searched for using proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at √(s) = 13 TeV. The analysed data set corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. Events are selected in which the Z boson decays into a pair of electrons or a pair of muons, and the ρ and ϕ mesons decay into pairs of pions and kaons, respectively. No significant excess above the background model is observed. As different polarization states are possible for the decay products of the Z boson and ρ or ϕ mesons, affecting the signal acceptance, scenarios in which the decays are longitudinally or transversely polarized are considered. Upper limits at the 95% confidence level on the Higgs boson branching fractions into Zρ and Zϕ are determined to be 1.04-1.31% and 0.31-0.40%, respectively, where the ranges reflect the considered polarization scenarios; these values are 740-940 and 730-950 times larger than the respective standard model expectations. These results constitute the first experimental limits on the two decay channels.
A Particle Consistent with the Higgs Boson Observed with the ATLAS Detector at the Large Hadron Collider. Nearly 50 years ago, theoretical physicists proposed that a field permeates the universe and gives energy to the vacuum. This field was required to explain why some, but not all, fundamental particles have mass. Numerous precision measurements during recent decades have provided indirect support for the existence of this field, but one crucial prediction of this theory has remained unconfirmed despite 30 years of experimental searches: the existence of a massive particle, the standard model Higgs boson. The ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN has now observed the production of a new particle with a mass of 126 giga–electron volts and decay signatures consistent with those expected for the Higgs particle. This result is strong support for the standard model of particle physics, including the presence of this vacuum field. The existence and properties of the newly discovered particle may also have consequences beyond the standard model itself.
Decay-mode independent searches for new scalar bosons with the OPAL detector at LEP. This paper describes topological searches for neutral scalar bosons S0 produced in association with a Z0 boson via the Bjorken process e+e- -> S0Z0 at centre-of-mass energies of 91 GeV and 183-209 GeV. These searches are based on studies of the recoil mass spectrum of Z0 -> e+e- and mu+mu- events on a search for S0Z0 with Z0 -> nunu bar and S0 -> e+e- or photons. They cover the decays of the S0 into an arbitrary combination of hadrons, leptons, photons and invisible particles as well as the possibility that it might be stable. No indication for a signal is found in the data and upper limits on the cross section of the Bjorken process are calculated. Cross-section limits are given in terms of a scale factor k with respect to the Standrad Model cross section for the Higgs-strahlung process e+e- -> H0smZ0. These results can be interpreted in general scenarios independently of the decay modes of the S0. The examples considered here are the production of a single new scalar particle with a decay width smaller than the detector mass resolution, and for the first time, two scenarios with continuous mass distributions, due to a single very broad state or several states close in mass.
Search for an invisibly decaying Higgs boson in e^+e^- collisions at 189 GeV. The data collected in 1998 by ALEPH at LEP at a centre-of-mass energy of 188.6 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 176.2 pb-1, are analysed to search for invisible decays of a Higgs boson produced in the reaction e+e- -> hZ. The number of events found in the data and their properties are in agreement with the Standard Model expectation. This search results in an improved 95% C.L. lower limit on the Higgs boson mass of 95.4 GeV/c2, assuming it decays totally invisibly and for a production cross section equal to that of the Standard Model.
Combination of searches for heavy resonances decaying into bosonic and leptonic final states using 36 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Searches for new heavy resonances decaying into different pairings of W, Z, or Higgs bosons, as well as directly into leptons, are presented using a data sample corresponding to 36.1fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV collected during 2015 and 2016 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. Analyses selecting bosonic decay modes in the qqqq, νν qq, ℓν qq, ℓℓ qq, ℓνℓν, ℓℓνν, ℓνℓℓ, ℓℓℓℓ, qqbb, νν bb, ℓν bb, and ℓℓ bb final states are combined, searching for a narrow-width resonance. Likewise, analyses selecting the leptonic ℓν and ℓℓ final states are also combined. These two sets of analyses are then further combined. No significant deviation from the Standard Model predictions is observed. Three benchmark models are tested: a model predicting the existence of a new heavy scalar singlet, a simplified model predicting a heavy vector-boson triplet, and a bulk Randall-Sundrum model with a heavy spin-2 Kaluza-Klein excitation of the graviton. Cross-section limits are set at the 95% confidence level using an asymptotic approximation and are compared with predictions for the benchmark models. These limits are also expressed in terms of constraints on couplings of the heavy vector-boson triplet to quarks, leptons, and the Higgs boson. The data exclude a heavy vector-boson triplet with mass below 5.5 TeV in a weakly coupled scenario and 4.5 TeV in a strongly coupled scenario, as well as a Kaluza-Klein graviton with mass below 2.3 TeV.
Study of vector boson scattering and search for new physics in events with two same-sign leptons and two jets. A measurement of vector-boson scattering in pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV is presented. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 19.4 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector. Candidate events are selected with exactly two leptons, electrons or muons, with the same charge, two jets with large rapidity separation and mass, and moderate missing transverse energy. The signal region is dominated by electroweak same-sign W-boson pair production. The observation agrees with the standard model prediction. The observed significance is 2.0σ, where a significance of 3.1σ is expected for the standard model. Cross section measurements of the W^±W^± and WZ processes in the fiducial region are reported. Bounds on the structure of quartic vector-boson interactions are given in the framework of dimension-eight effective field theory operators, as well as limits on the production of doubly-charged Higgs bosons.
Searches for neutral Higgs bosons in e+e- collisions at LEP.
Search for dark matter in events with a hadronically decaying W or Z boson and missing transverse momentum in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for dark matter pair production in association with a W or Z boson in pp collisions representing 20.3 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity at √(s)=8 TeV using data recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. Events with a hadronic jet with the jet-mass consistent with a W or Z boson, and with large missing transverse momentum are analyzed. The data are consistent with the Standard Model expectations, and limits are set on the mass scale in effective field theories that describe the interaction of dark matter and Standard Model particles.
Search for the flavor-changing neutral current interactions of the top quark and the Higgs boson which decays into a pair of b quarks at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for flavor-changing neutral currents (FCNC) in events with the top quark and the Higgs boson is presented. The Higgs boson decay to a pair of b quarks is considered. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. Two channels are considered: single top quark FCNC production in association with the Higgs boson (pp → tH), and top quark pair production with FCNC decay of the top quark (t → qH). Final states with one isolated lepton and at least three reconstructed jets, among which at least two are associated with b quarks, are studied. No significant deviation is observed from the predicted background. Observed (expected) upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the branching fractions of top quark decays, ℬ(t → uH) < 0.47% (0.34%) and ℬ(t → cH) < 0.47% (0.44%), assuming a single nonzero FCNC coupling.
Study of the spin and parity of the Higgs boson in diboson decays with the ATLAS detector. Studies of the spin, parity and tensor couplings of the Higgs boson in the H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ , H→ WW^* → eνμν and H→γγ decay processes at the LHC are presented. The investigations are based on 25 fb^-1 of pp collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at √( s) = 7 TeV and √( s )= 8 TeV. The Standard Model (SM) Higgs boson hypothesis, corresponding to the quantum numbers J ^P=0^+, is tested against several alternative spin scenarios, including non-SM spin-0 and spin-2 models with universal and non-universal couplings to fermions and vector bosons. All tested alternative models are excluded in favour of the SM Higgs boson hypothesis at more than 99.9% confidence level. Using the H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ and H→ WW^* → eνμν decays, the tensor structure of the HVV interaction in the spin-0 hypothesis is also investigated. The observed distributions of variables sensitive to the non-SM tensor couplings are compatible with the SM predictions and constraints on the non-SM couplings are derived.
Search for charged Higgs bosons through the violation of lepton universality in tt̅ events using pp collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS experiment. In several extensions of the Standard Model, the top quark can decay into a bottom quark and a light charged Higgs boson H^+, t → bH^+, in addition to the Standard Model decay t → bW. Since W bosons decay to the three lepton generations equally, while H^+ may predominantly decay into τν, charged Higgs bosons can be searched for using the violation of lepton universality in top quark decays. The analysis in this paper is based on 4.6/fb of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. Signatures containing leptons (e or μ) and/or a hadronically decaying τ (τ_had) are used. Event yield ratios between e+τ_had and e+μ, as well as between μ+τ_had and μ+e, final states are measured in the data and compared to predictions from simulations. This ratio-based method reduces the impact of systematic uncertainties in the analysis. No significant deviation from the Standard Model predictions is observed. With the assumption that the branching fraction B(H^+ →τν) is 100%, upper limits in the range 3.2%-4.4% can be placed on the branching fraction B(t → bH^+) for charged Higgs boson masses m_H+ in the range 90-140 GeV. After combination with results from a search for charged Higgs bosons in ttbar decays using the τ_had+jets final state, upper limits on B(t → bH^+) can be set in the range 0.8%-3.4%, for m_H+ in the range 90-160 GeV.
Search for new physics in events with a leptonically decaying Z boson and a large transverse momentum imbalance in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for new physics in events with a Z boson produced in association with large missing transverse momentum at the LHC is presented. The search is based on the 2016 data sample of proton-proton collisions recorded with the CMS experiment at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The results of this search are interpreted in terms of a simplified model of dark matter production via spin-0 or spin-1 mediators, a scenario with a standard-model-like Higgs boson produced in association with the Z boson and decaying invisibly, a model of unparticle production, and a model with large extra spatial dimensions. No significant deviations from the background expectations are found, and limits are set on relevant model parameters, significantly extending the results previously achieved in this channel.
A search for the Zγ decay mode of the Higgs boson in pp  collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Zγ decay of the Higgs boson, with Z boson decays into pairs of electrons or muons is presented. The analysis uses proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The observed data are consistent with the expected background with a p-value of 1.3%. An upper limit at 95% confidence level on the production cross-section times the branching ratio for pp→ H→ Zγ is set at 3.6 times the Standard Model prediction while 2.6 times is expected in the presence of the Standard Model Higgs boson. The best-fit value for the signal yield normalised to the Standard Model prediction is 2.0^+1.0_-0.9 where the statistical component of the uncertainty is dominant.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the H →τ^+ τ^- decay mode in √(s) = 7 TeV pp collisions with ATLAS. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson decaying into a pair of tau leptons is reported. The analysis is based on a data sample of proton-proton collisions collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb^-1. No significant excess over the expected background is observed in the Higgs boson mass range of 100-150 GeV. The observed (expected) upper limits on the cross section times the branching ratio for H →τ^+ τ^- are found to be between 2.9 (3.4) and 11.7 (8.2) times the Standard Model prediction for this mass range.
Searches for Higgs bosons.
Precision electroweak measurements on the Z resonance. We report on the final electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the Z resonance by the experiments operating at the electron-positron colliders SLC and LEP. The data consist of 17 million Z decays accumulated by the ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL experiments at LEP, and 600 thousand Z decays by the SLD experiment using a polarised beam at SLC. The measurements include cross-sections, forward-backward asymmetries and polarised asymmetries. The mass and width of the Z boson, and , and its couplings to fermions, for example the ρ parameter and the effective electroweak mixing angle, are precisely measured. The number of light neutrino species is determined to be 2.9840+/-0.0082. The results are compared to the predictions of the Standard Model. Electroweak radiative corrections beyond the running of the QED and QCD coupling constants are observed with a significance of five standard deviations, and in agreement with the Standard Model. Of the many Z-pole measurements, the forward-backward asymmetry in b-quark production shows the largest difference with respect to its Standard Model expectation, at the level of 2.8 standard deviations. Through radiative corrections evaluated in the framework of the Standard Model, the masses of the top quark and the W Boson are predicted. These indirect constraints are compared to the direct measurements, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model. Using in addition the direct measurements of and , the mass of the as yet unobserved Standard Model Higgs boson is predicted.
Search for a Charged Higgs Boson Produced in the Vector-boson Fusion Mode with Decay H^±→ W^± Z using pp Collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS Experiment. A search for a charged Higgs boson, H^±, decaying to a W^± boson and a Z boson is presented. The search is based on 20.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The H^± boson is assumed to be produced via vector-boson fusion and the decays W^±→ qq̅^̅'̅ and Z→ e^+e^-/μ^+μ^- are considered. The search is performed in a range of charged Higgs boson masses from 200 to 1000 GeV. No evidence for the production of an H^± boson is observed. Upper limits of 31–1020 fb at 95% CL are placed on the cross section for vector-boson fusion production of an H^± boson times its branching fraction to W^± Z. The limits are compared with predictions from the Georgi-Machacek Higgs Triplet Model.
Search for electroweak production of a vector-like T quark using fully hadronic final states. A search is performed for electroweak production of a vector-like top quark partner T of charge 2/3 in association with a top or bottom quark, using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search targets T quarks over a wide range of masses and fractional widths, decaying to a top quark and either a Higgs boson or a Z boson in fully hadronic final states. The search is performed using two experimentally distinct signatures that depend on whether or not each quark from the decays of the top quark, Higgs boson, or Z boson produces an individual resolved jet. Jet substructure, b tagging, and kinematic variables are used to identify the top quark and boson jets, and also to suppress the standard model backgrounds. The data are found to be consistent with the expected backgrounds. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the cross sections for T quark-mediated production of tHQq, tZQq, and their sum, where Q is the associated top or bottom heavy quark and q is another associated quark. The limits are given for each search signature for various T quark widths up to 30% of the T quark mass, and are between 2 pb and 20 fb for T quark masses in the range 0.6-2.6 TeV. These results are significantly more sensitive than prior searches for electroweak single production of T→tH and represent the first constraints on T→tZ using hadronic decays of the Z boson with this production mode.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the γγ bb̅ final state with 13 TeV pp collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment. A search is performed for resonant and non-resonant Higgs boson pair production in the γγ bb̅ final state. The data set used corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess relative to the Standard Model expectation is observed. The observed limit on the non-resonant Higgs boson pair cross-section is 0.73 pb at 95% confidence level. This observed limit is equivalent to 22 times the predicted Standard Model cross-section. The Higgs boson self-coupling (κ_λ = λ_HHH / λ_HHH^ SM) is constrained at 95% confidence level to -8.2 < κ_λ < 13.2. For resonant Higgs boson pair production through X → HH → γγ bb̅, the limit is presented, using the narrow-width approximation, as a function of m_X in the range 260 GeV < m_X < 1000 GeV. The observed limits range from 1.1 pb to 0.12 pb over this mass range.
Search for Neutral Higgs Bosons in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s)∼ 189 GeV. A search for neutral Higgs bosons has been performed with the OPAL detector at LEP, using approximately 170 pb-1 of e+e- collision data collected at sqrt(s) 189GeV. Searches have been performed for the Standard Model (SM) process e+e- to H0Z0 and the MSSM processes e+e- to H0Z0, A0h0. The searches are sensitive to the b b-bar and tau antitau decay modes of the Higgs bosons, and also to the MSSM decay mode h0 to A0A0. OPAL search results at lower centre-of-mass energies have been incorporated in the limits we set, which are valid at the 95% confidence level. For the SM Higgs boson, we obtain a lower mass bound of 91.0 GeV. In the MSSM, our limits are mh>74.8GeV and mA>76.5GeV, assuming tan(beta)>1, that the mixing of the scalar top quarks is either zero or maximal, and that the soft SUSY-breaking masses are 1 TeV. For the case of zero scalar top mixing, we exclude values of tan(beta) between 0.72 and 2.19.
Search for Higgs Bosons in e^+ e^- Collisions at 183 GeV. The data collected by the OPAL experiment at sqrts=183 GeV were used to search for Higgs bosons which are predicted by the Standard Model and various extensions, such as general models with two Higgs field doublets and the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of approximately 54pb-1. None of the searches for neutral and charged Higgs bosons have revealed an excess of events beyond the expected background. This negative outcome, in combination with similar results from searches at lower energies, leads to new limits for the Higgs boson masses and other model parameters. In particular, the 95% confidence level lower limit for the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson is 88.3 GeV. Charged Higgs bosons can be excluded for masses up to 59.5 GeV. In the MSSM, mh > 70.5 GeV and mA > 72.0 GeV are obtained for tanbeta>1, no and maximal scalar top mixing and soft SUSY-breaking masses of 1 TeV. The range 0.8 < tanb < 1.9 is excluded for minimal scalar top mixing and mtop < 175 GeV. More general scans of the MSSM parameter space are also considered.
Measurement of the Production Rate of Charm Quark Pairs from Gluons in Hadronic Z^0 Decays. The rate of secondary charm-quark-pair production has been measured in 4.4 million hadronic Z0 decays collected by OPAL. By selecting events with three jets and tagging charmed hadrons in the gluon jet candidate using leptons and charged D* mesons, the average number of secondary charm-quark pairs per hadronic event is found to be (3.20+-0.21+-0.38)x10-2.
Search for beyond the standard model Higgs bosons decaying into a bb pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for Higgs bosons that decay into a bottom quark-antiquark pair and are accompanied by at least one additional bottom quark is performed with the CMS detector. The data analyzed were recorded in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.7 fb^-1. The final state considered in this analysis is particularly sensitive to signatures of a Higgs sector beyond the standard model, as predicted in the generic class of two Higgs doublet models (2HDMs). No signal above the standard model background expectation is observed. Stringent upper limits on the cross section times branching fraction are set for Higgs bosons with masses up to 1300 GeV. The results are interpreted within several MSSM and 2HDM scenarios.
Search for resonant pair production of Higgs bosons in the bbZZ channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for the production of a narrow-width resonance decaying into a pair of Higgs bosons decaying into the bbZZ channel is presented. The analysis is based on data collected with the CMS detector during 2016, in proton-proton collisions at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The final states considered are the ones where one of the Z bosons decays into a pair of muons or electrons, and the other Z boson decays either to a pair of quarks or a pair of neutrinos. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are placed on the production of narrow-width spin-0 or spin-2 particles decaying to a pair of Higgs bosons, in models with and without an extended Higgs sector. For a resonance mass range between 260 and 1000 GeV, limits on the production cross section times branching fraction of a spin-0 and spin-2 resonance range from 0.1 to 5.0 pb and 0.1 to 3.6 pb, respectively. These results set limits in parameter space in bulk Randall-Sundrum radion, Kaluza-Klein excitation of the graviton, and N2HDM models. For specific choices of parameters the N2HDM can be excluded in a mass range between 360 and 620 GeV for a resonance decaying to two Higgs bosons. This is the first search for Higgs boson resonant pair production in the bbZZ channel.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the γγbb final state in pp collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is presented for the production of a pair of Higgs bosons, where one decays into two photons and the other one into a bottom quark-antiquark pair. The analysis is performed using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2016 by the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The results are in agreement with standard model (SM) predictions. In a search for resonant production, upper limits are set on the cross section for new spin-0 or spin-2 particles. For the SM-like nonresonant production hypothesis, the data exclude a product of cross section and branching fraction larger than 2.0 fb at 95% confidence level (CL), corresponding to about 24 times the SM prediction. Values of the effective Higgs boson self-coupling κ_λ are constrained to be within the range -11 < κ_λ < 17 at 95% CL, assuming all other Higgs boson couplings are at their SM value. The constraints on κ_λ are the most restrictive to date.
Measurement of R_b and B_r(b → lν X) at LEP Using Double-Tag Methods. We present a combined measurement of = Γ(Z → bb) / Γ(Z→) and the semileptonic branching ratio of b quarks in Z decays, , using double-tag methods. Two analyses are performed on one million hadronic Z decays collected in 1994 and 1995. The first analysis exploits the capabilities of the silicon microvertex detector. The tagging of b-events is based on the large impact parameter of tracks from weak b-decays with respect to the e^+e^- collision point. In the second analysis, a high-p_t lepton tag is used to enhance the b-component in the sample and its momentum spectrum is used to constrain the model dependent uncertainties in the semileptonic b-decay. The analyses are combined in order to provide precise determinations of and :
Search for narrow Hγ resonances in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for heavy, narrow resonances decaying to a Higgs boson and a photon (Hγ) has been performed in proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector at the LHC in 2016. Events containing a photon and a Lorentz-boosted hadronically decaying Higgs boson that is reconstructed as a single, large-radius jet are considered, and the γ+jet invariant mass spectrum is analyzed for the presence of narrow resonances. To increase the sensitivity of the search, events are categorized depending on whether the large-radius jet can be identified as a result of the merging of two jets originating from b quarks. Results in both categories are found to agree with the predictions of the standard model. Upper limits on the production of Hγ resonances are set as a function of the resonance mass in the range of 720-3250 GeV, representing the most stringent constraints to date.
Measurement of the Higgs boson production rate in association with top quarks in final states with electrons, muons, and hadronically decaying tau leptons at √(s) = 13 TeV. The rate for Higgs (H) bosons production in association with either one (tH) or two (tt̅H) top quarks is measured in final states containing multiple electrons, muons, or tau leptons decaying to hadrons and a neutrino, using proton-proton collisions recorded at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV by the CMS experiment. The analyzed data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. The analysis is aimed at events that contain H→WW, H→ττ, or H→ZZ decays and each of the top quark(s) decays either to lepton+jets or all-jet channels. Sensitivity to signal is maximized by including ten signatures in the analysis, depending on the lepton multiplicity. The separation among the tH, the tt̅H, and the backgrounds is enhanced through machine-learning techniques and matrix-element methods. The measured production rates for the tt̅H and tH signals correspond to 0.92 ± 0.19 (stat) ^+0.17_-0.13 (syst) and 5.7 ± 2.7 (stat) ± 3.0 (syst) of their respective standard model (SM) expectations. The corresponding observed (expected) significance amounts to 4.7 (5.2) standard deviations for tt̅H, and to 1.4 (0.3) for tH production. Assuming that the Higgs boson coupling to the tau lepton is equal in strength to its expectation in the SM, the coupling y_t of the Higgs boson to the top quark divided by its SM expectation, κ_t=y_t/y_t^SM, is constrained to be within -0.9 < κ_t < -0.7 or 0.7 < κ_t < 1.1, at 95% confidence level. This result is the most sensitive measurement of the tt̅H production rate to date.
A deep neural network for simultaneous estimation of b jet energy and resolution. We describe a method to obtain point and dispersion estimates for the energies of jets arising from b quarks produced in proton-proton collisions at an energy of √(s) = 13 TeV at the CERN LHC. The algorithm is trained on a large simulated sample of b jets and validated on data recorded by the CMS detector in 2017 corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 41 fb^-1. A multivariate regression algorithm based on a deep feed-forward neural network employs jet composition and shape information, and the properties of reconstructed secondary vertices associated with the jet. The results of the algorithm are used to improve the sensitivity of analyses that make use of b jets in the final state, such as the observation of Higgs boson decay to bb̅.
Searches for non-minimal Higgs bosons in Z^0 decays.
Search for the neutral Higgs boson at LEP.
Absolute Lower Limits on the Masses of Selectrons and Sneutrinos in the MSSM. The results of searches for selectrons, charginos and neutralinos performed with the data collected by the ALEPH detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV are interpreted in the framework of the Minimal Supersymmetric extension of the Standard Model with R-parity conservation. Under the assumptions of gaugino and sfermion mass unification and no sfermion mixing, an absolute lower limit of 73 GeV/c2 is set on the mass of the lighter selectron at the 95% confidence level. Similarly, limits on the masses of the heavier selectron and of the sneutrino are set at 107 and 84 GeV/c2, respectively. Additional constraints are derived from the results of the searches for Higgs bosons. The results are also interpreted in the framework of minimal supergravity.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the γγ WW^* channel using pp collision data recorded at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Searches for non-resonant and resonant Higgs boson pair production are performed in the γγ WW^* channel with the final state of γγℓν jj using 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant deviation from the Standard Model prediction is observed. A 95% confidence-level observed upper limit of 7.7 pb is set on the cross section for non-resonant production, while the expected limit is 5.4 pb. A search for a narrow-width resonance X decaying to a pair of Standard Model Higgs bosons HH is performed with the same set of data, and the observed upper limits on σ(pp → X) × B(X → HH) range between 40.0 pb and 6.1 pb for masses of the resonance between 260 GeV and 500 GeV, while the expected limits range between 17.6 pb and 4.4 pb. When deriving the limits above, the Standard Model branching ratios of the H →γγ and H → WW^* are assumed.
Standard Model Higgs Boson with the L3 Experiment at LEP. Final results of the search for the Standard Model Higgs boson are presented for the data collected by the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies up to about 209 GeV. These data are compared with the expectations of Standard Model processes for Higgs boson masses up to 120 GeV. A lower limit on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson of 112.0 GeV is set at the 95% confidence level. The most significant high mass candidate is a Hnn bar event. It has a reconstructed Higgs mass of 115 GeV and it was recorded at Square root of s =206.4 GeV.
Measurements of Mass, Width and Gauge Couplings of the W Boson at LEP. We report on measurements of mass and total decay width of the W boson and of triple-gauge-boson couplings, γWW and ZWW, with the L3 detector at LEP. W-pair events produced in interactions between 161 and 172 centre-of-mass energy are selected in a data sample corresponding to a total luminosity of 21.2 pb^-1. The mass and total decay width of the W boson are determined to be =80.75^+0.26_-0.27 (exp.)±0.03 ( hrmLEP) and =1.74^+0.88_-0.78 (stat.)±0.25 (syst.) V, respectively. Limits on anomalous triple-gauge-boson couplings, γWW and ZWW, are determined, in particular -1.5<<1.9 (95% CL), excluding vanishing ZWW coupling at more than 95% confidence level.
Search for a light charged Higgs boson in top quark decays in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. Results are presented on a search for a light charged Higgs boson that can be produced in the decay of the top quark to charged H and b quark and which, in turn, decays into tau and tau neutrino. The analysed data correspond to an integrated luminosity of about 2 inverse femtobarns recorded in proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s) = 7 TeV by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The search is sensitive to the decays of the top quark pairs t anti-t to charged Higgs W b anti-b and t anti-t to charged Higgs b anti-b. Various final states have been studied separately, all requiring presence of a tau lepton from charged Higgs decays, missing transverse energy, and multiple jets. Upper limits on the branching fraction B(t to charged Higgs b) in the range of 2-3% are established for charged Higgs boson masses between 80 and 160 GeV, under the assumption that B(charged Higgs to tau anti-tau) = 1.
Search for single production of a vector-like quark via a heavy gluon in the 4b final state with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search is performed for the process pp → G^* → B_Hb̅/B̅_H b → H b b̅→ bb̅bb̅, predicted in composite Higgs scenarios, where G^* is a heavy colour octet vector resonance and B_H a vector-like quark of charge -1/3. The data were obtained from pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 fb^-1, recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The largest background, multijet production, is estimated using a data-driven method. No significant excess of events with respect to Standard Model predictions is observed, and upper limits on the production cross section times branching ratio are set. Comparisons to the predictions from a specific benchmark model are made, resulting in lower mass limits in the two-dimensional mass plane of m_G^* vs. m_B_H.
Missing mass spectra in hadronic events from e^+ e^- collisions at √(s)=161-172 GeV and limits on invisible Higgs decays. Events characterised by large hadronic energy and transverse momentum are selected from the data collected by the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies between 161 and 172 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 21 pb^-1. The visible mass and the missing mass distributions of the selected events are consistent with those expected from Standard Model processes. This result is combined with that from data taken at the Z resonance to set an upper limit on the production rate and decay into invisible final states of a non-minimal Higgs boson, as a function of the Higgs mass. Assuming the non-minimal Higgs production cross section to be the same as for the Standard Model Higgs boson and the decay branching fraction into invisible final states to be 100%, a Higgs mass lower limit of 69.6 GeV is derived at 95% confidence level.
Search for heavy resonances decaying into a vector boson and a Higgs boson in final states with charged leptons, neutrinos, and b quarks. A search for heavy resonances decaying to a Higgs boson and a vector boson is presented. The analysis is performed using data samples collected in 2015 by the CMS experiment at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 2.2-2.5 fb^-1. The search is performed in channels in which the vector boson decays into leptonic final states (Z→νν, W →ℓν, and Z→ℓℓ, with ℓ = e, μ), while the Higgs boson decays to collimated b quark pairs detected as a single massive jet. The discriminating power of a jet mass requirement and a b jet tagging algorithm are exploited to suppress the standard model backgrounds. The event yields observed in data are consistent with the background expectation. In the context of a theoretical model with a heavy vector triplet, a resonance with mass less than 2 TeV is excluded at 95% confidence level. The results are also interpreted in terms of limits on the parameters of the model, improving on the reach of previous searches.
Search for  heavy resonances decaying into a pair of Z bosons in the ℓ^+ℓ^-ℓ'^+ℓ'^- and  ℓ^+ℓ^-νν̅ final states using 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A  search for heavy resonances decaying into a pair of Z bosons leading to ℓ^+ℓ^-ℓ'^+ℓ'^- and  ℓ^+ℓ^-νν̅ final states, where ℓ stands for either an electron or a muon, is presented. The search uses proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected from 2015 to 2018 that corresponds to the full integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 recorded by the ATLAS detector during Run 2 of the Large Hadron Collider. Different mass ranges spanning 200 GeV to 2000 GeV for the hypothetical resonances are considered, depending on the final state and model. In the absence of a significant observed excess, the results are interpreted as upper limits on the production cross section of a spin-0 or spin-2 resonance. The upper limits for the spin-0 resonance are translated to exclusion contours in the context of Type-I and Type-II two-Higgs-doublet models, and the limits for the spin-2 resonance are used to constrain the Randall-Sundrum model with an extra dimension giving rise to spin-2 graviton excitations.
Search for Doubly Charged Higgs Bosons with the OPAL detector at LEP. A search for pair-produced doubly charged Higgs bosons has been performed using data samples corresponding to an integrated luminosity of about 614 pb-1 collected with the OPAL detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies between 189GeV and 209GeV. No evidence for a signal has been observed. A mass limit of 98.5GeV/c2 at the 95% confidence level has been set for the doubly charged Higgs particle in left-right symmetric models. This is the first search for doubly charged Higgs bosons at centre-of-mass energies larger than 91GeV.
Measurements of the Total and Differential Higgs Boson Production Cross Sections Combining the H →γγ and H → ZZ ^*→ 4ℓ Decay Channels at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS Detector. Measurements of the total and differential cross sections of Higgs boson production are performed using 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collisions produced by the Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV and recorded by the ATLAS detector. Cross sections are obtained from measured H →γγ and H → ZZ ^*→ 4ℓ event yields, which are combined accounting for detector efficiencies, fiducial acceptances and branching fractions. Differential cross sections are reported as a function of Higgs boson transverse momentum, Higgs boson rapidity, number of jets in the event, and transverse momentum of the leading jet. The total production cross section is determined to be σ_pp → H = 33.0 ± 5.3   ( stat) ± 1.6   ( sys) pb. The measurements are compared to state-of-the-art predictions.
Search for massive WH resonances decaying into the ℓν b b̅ final state at √(s)= 8 TeV. A search for a massive resonance W' decaying into a W and a Higgs boson in the l nu b anti-b (l = e, mu) final state is presented. Results are based on data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 inverse femtobarns of proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s)=8 TeV, collected using the CMS detector at the LHC. For a high-mass (> 1 TeV) resonance, the two bottom quarks coming from the Higgs boson decay are reconstructed as a single jet, which can be tagged by placing requirements on its substructure and flavour. Exclusion limits at 95% confidence level are set on the production cross section of a narrow resonance decaying into WH, as a function of its mass. In the context of a little Higgs model, a lower limit on the W' mass of 1.4 TeV is set. In a heavy vector triplet model that mimics the properties of composite Higgs models, a lower limit on the W' mass of 1.5 TeV is set. In the context of this model, the results are combined with related searches to obtain a lower limit on the W' mass of 1.8 TeV, the most restrictive to date for decays to a pair of standard model bosons.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with top quarks and decaying into a bb̅ pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair, tt̅H, is presented. The analysis uses 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV, collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in 2015 and 2016. The search targets the H → bb̅ decay mode. The selected events contain either one or two electrons or muons from the top-quark decays, and are then categorized according to the number of jets and how likely these are to contain b-hadrons. Multivariate techniques are used to discriminate between signal and background events, the latter being dominated by tt̅ + jets production. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, the ratio of the measured tt̅H signal cross-section to the Standard Model expectation is found to be μ = 0.84^+0.64_-0.61. A value of μ greater than 2.0 is excluded at 95% confidence level while the expected upper limit is μ < 1.2 in the absence of a tt̅H signal.
A search for technipions and charged Higgs bosons at LEP.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅WW^∗ decay mode at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅WW^* decay mode is performed in the bb̅lν qq final state using 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No evidence of events beyond the background expectation is found. Upper limits on the non-resonant pp→ HH production cross section of 10 pb and on the resonant production cross section as a function of the HH invariant mass are obtained. Resonant production limits are set for scalar and spin-2 graviton hypotheses in the mass range 500 to 3000 GeV.
Decay mode independent search for a light Higgs boson and new scalars.
Measurements of the Higgs boson production and decay rates and constraints on its couplings from a combined ATLAS and CMS analysis of the LHC pp collision data at √(s)= 7 and 8 TeV. Combined ATLAS and CMS measurements of the Higgs boson production and decay rates, as well as constraints on its couplings to vector bosons and fermions, are presented. The combination is based on the analysis of five production processes, namely gluon fusion, vector boson fusion, and associated production with a W or a Z boson or a pair of top quarks, and of the six decay modes H → ZZ, WW, γγ, ττ, bb, and μμ. All results are reported assuming a value of 125.09 GeV for the Higgs boson mass, the result of the combined measurement by the ATLAS and CMS experiments. The analysis uses the CERN LHC proton–proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS and CMS experiments in 2011 and 2012, corresponding to integrated luminosities per experiment of approximately 5 fb^-1 at √(s)=7 TeV and 20 fb^-1 at √(s) = 8 TeV. The Higgs boson production and decay rates measured by the two experiments are combined within the context of three generic parameterisations: two based on cross sections and branching fractions, and one on ratios of coupling modifiers. Several interpretations of the measurements with more model-dependent parameterisations are also given. The combined signal yield relative to the Standard Model prediction is measured to be 1.09 ± 0.11. The combined measurements lead to observed significances for the vector boson fusion production process and for the H →ττ decay of 5.4 and 5.5 standard deviations, respectively. The data are consistent with the Standard Model predictions for all parameterisations considered.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson with the OPAL Detector at LEP. This paper summarises the search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in e+e- collisions at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV performed by the OPAL Collaboration at LEP. The consistency of the data with the background hypothesis and various Higgs boson mass hypotheses is examined. No indication of a signal is found in the data and a lower bound of 112.7GeV/C^2 is obtained on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson at the 95% CL.
Fermi-Dirac Correlations in Λ Pairs in Hadronic Z Decays. Two-particle correlations of Lambda Lambda and Anti-Lambda Anti-Lambda pairshave been studied in multihadronic Z decays recorded with the ALEPH detector at LEP in the years from 1992 to 1995. The correlations were measured as a function of the four-momentum difference Q of the pair. A depletion of events is observed in the region Q < 2 GeV which could arise from the effects of Fermi-Dirac statistics. In addition the spin content of the Lambda pair system has been determined. For Q > 2 GeV the fraction of pairs with spin one is consistent with the value of 0.75 expected for a statistical spin mixture, whilst for Q < 2 GeV this fraction is found to be lower. For Lambda Anti-Lambda pairs, where no Fermi-Dirac correlations are expected, the spin one fraction is measured to be consistent with 0.75 over the entire analysed Q range.
Search for invisibly decaying Higgs bosons in e^+e^-→ Z^0h^0 production at √(s) = 183 - 209 GeV. A search is performed for Higgs bosons decaying into invisible final states, produced in association with a Zo boson in e+e- collisions at energies between 183 and 209 GeV. The search is based on data samples collected by the OPAL detector at LEP corresponding to an integrated luminosity of about 660 pb-1. The analysis aims to select events containing the hadronic decay products of the Zo boson and large missing momentum, as expected from Higgs boson decay into a pair of stable weakly interacting neutral particles, such as the lightest neutralino in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model. The same analysis is applied to a search for nearly invisible Higgs boson cascade decays into stable weakly interacting neutral particles. No excess over the expected background from Standard Model processes is observed. Limits on the production of invisibly decaying Higgs bosons produced in association with a Zo boson are derived. Assuming a branching ratio BR(ho->invisible)=1, a lower limit of 108.2 GeV is placed on the Higgs boson mass at the 95% confidence level. Limits on the production of nearly invisibly decaying Higgs bosons are also obtained.
Search for the neutral Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for neutral Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM) is reported. The analysis is based on a sample of proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The data were recorded in 2011 and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb^-1 to 4.8 fb^-1. Higgs boson decays into oppositely-charged muon or tau lepton pairs are considered for final states requiring either the presence or absence of b-jets. No statistically significant excess over the expected background is observed and exclusion limits at the 95% confidence level are derived. The exclusion limits are for the production cross-section of a generic neutral Higgs boson, ϕ, as a function of the Higgs boson mass and for h/H/A production in the MSSM as a function of the parameters m_A and tanβ in the m_h^max scenario for m_A in the range of 90 GeV to 500 GeV.
Search for dark matter in association with a Higgs boson decaying to two photons at √(s)= 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for dark matter in association with a Higgs boson decaying to two photons is presented. This study is based on data collected with the ATLAS detector, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of proton–proton collisions at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV in 2015 and 2016. No significant excess over the expected background is observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the visible cross section for beyond the Standard Model physics processes, and the production cross section times branching fraction of the Standard Model Higgs boson decaying into two photons in association with missing transverse momentum in three different benchmark models. Limits at 95% confidence level are also set on the observed signal in two-dimensional mass planes. Additionally, the results are interpreted in terms of 90% confidence-level limits on the dark-matter–nucleon scattering cross section, as a function of the dark-matter particle mass, for a spin-independent scenario.
Search for heavy resonances decaying into WW in the eνμν final state in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for neutral heavy resonances is performed in the WW→ eνμν decay channel using pp collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1, collected at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No evidence of such heavy resonances is found. In the search for production via the quark–antiquark annihilation or gluon–gluon fusion process, upper limits on σ_X × B(X → WW) as a function of the resonance mass are obtained in the mass range between 200 GeV and up to 5 TeV for various benchmark models: a Higgs-like scalar in different width scenarios, a two-Higgs-doublet model, a heavy vector triplet model, and a warped extra dimensions model. In the vector-boson fusion process, constraints are also obtained on these resonances, as well as on a Higgs boson in the Georgi–Machacek model and a heavy tensor particle coupling only to gauge bosons.
A search for resonances decaying into a Higgs boson and a new particle X in the XH → qqbb final state with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy resonances decaying into a Higgs boson (H) and a new particle (X) is reported, utilizing 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV collected during 2015 and 2016 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The particle X is assumed to decay to a pair of light quarks, and the fully hadronic final state XH → qq̅'bb̅ is analysed. The search considers the regime of high XH resonance masses, where the X and H bosons are both highly Lorentz-boosted and are each reconstructed using a single jet with large radius parameter. A two-dimensional phase space of XH mass versus X mass is scanned for evidence of a signal, over a range of XH resonance mass values between 1 TeV and 4 TeV, and for X particles with masses from 50 GeV to 1000 GeV. All search results are consistent with the expectations for the background due to Standard Model processes, and 95% CL upper limits are set, as a function of XH and X masses, on the production cross-section of the XH→ qq̅'bb̅ resonance.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced by vector-boson fusion in 8 TeV pp collisions and decaying to bottom quarks with the ATLAS detector. A search with the ATLAS detector is presented for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced by vector-boson fusion and decaying to a pair of bottom quarks, using 20.2 fb^-1 of LHC proton–proton collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV. The signal is searched for as a resonance in the invariant mass distribution of a pair of jets containing  b-hadrons in vector-boson-fusion candidate events. The yield is measured to be -0.8 ± 2.3 times the Standard Model cross-section for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV. The upper limit on the cross-section times the branching ratio is found to be 4.4 times the Standard Model cross-section at the 95% confidence level, consistent with the expected limit value of 5.4 (5.7) in the background-only (Standard Model production) hypothesis.
Search for doubly charged scalar bosons decaying into same-sign W boson pairs with the ATLAS detector. A search for doubly charged scalar bosons decaying into W boson pairs is presented. It uses a data sample from proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of  36.1 fb^-1 collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV in 2015 and 2016. This search is guided by a model that includes an extension of the Higgs sector through a scalar triplet, leading to a rich phenomenology that includes doubly charged scalar bosons H^±±. Those bosons are produced in pairs in proton-proton collisions and decay predominantly into electroweak gauge bosons H^±±→ W^± W^±. Experimental signatures with several leptons, missing transverse energy and jets are explored. No significant deviations from the Standard Model predictions are found. The parameter space of the benchmark model is excluded at 95% confidence level for H^±± bosons with masses between 200 and 220 GeV.
Search for a Standard Model Higgs boson in the mass range 200-600 GeV in the H → ZZ → l^+l^-qq̅ decay channel with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy Standard Model Higgs boson decaying via H → ZZ → l^+l^-qq̅, where l=e or μ, is presented. The search uses a data set of pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb^-1 collected in 2011 by the ATLAS detector at the CERN LHC. No significant excess of events above the estimated background is found. Upper limits at 95% confidence level on the production cross section of a Higgs boson with a mass in the range between 200 and 600 GeV are derived. A Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass in the range 300 ≤ m_H ≤ 322 GeV or 353 ≤ m_H ≤ 410 GeV is excluded at 95% CL. The corresponding expected exclusion range is 351 ≤ m_H ≤ 404 GeV at 95% CL.
Constraints on mediator-based dark matter and scalar dark energy models using √(s) = 13 TeV pp collision data collected by the ATLAS detector. Constraints on selected  mediator-based dark matter models and a scalar dark energy model using up to 37 fb^-1 √(s)= 13 TeV pp collision data collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC during 2015-2016 are summarised in this paper.  The results of  experimental searches in a variety of final states are interpreted in terms of a set of spin-1 and spin-0 single-mediator dark matter simplified models and a second set of models involving an extended Higgs sector plus an additional vector or pseudo-scalar mediator. The searches considered in this paper constrain spin-1 leptophobic and leptophilic mediators, spin-0 colour-neutral and colour-charged mediators and vector or pseudo-scalar mediators embedded in extended Higgs sector models. The results are also interpreted for the first time in terms of light scalar particles that could contribute to the accelerating expansion of the universe (dark energy).
Search for neutral Higgs boson in Z0 decay.
Determination of spin and parity of the Higgs boson in the WW^*→ e νμν decay channel with the ATLAS detector. Studies of the spin and parity quantum numbers of the Higgs boson in the WW^* → e νμν final state  are presented,  based on proton–proton collision data collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=8 TeV. The Standard Model spin-parity J^CP = 0^++ hypothesis is compared with alternative hypotheses for both spin and CP. The case where the observed resonance is a mixture of the Standard-Model-like Higgs boson and CP-even  (J^CP = 0^++) or  CP-odd (J^CP = 0^+-) Higgs boson in scenarios beyond the Standard Model is also studied.  The data are found to be consistent with the Standard Model prediction and limits are placed on alternative spin and CP hypotheses, including CP mixing in different scenarios. 
Search for Neutral Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model Higgs Bosons Decaying to Tau Pairs in pp Collisions  at √(s)=7 TeV. A search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons in pp collisions at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV is presented. The results are based on a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36 inverse picobarns recorded by the CMS experiment. The search uses decays of the Higgs bosons to tau pairs. No excess is observed in the tau-pair invariant-mass spectrum. The resulting upper limits on the Higgs boson production cross section times branching fraction to tau pairs, as a function of the pseudoscalar Higgs boson mass, yield stringent new bounds in the MSSM parameter space.
Search for events with large missing transverse momentum, jets, and at least two tau leptons in 7 TeV proton-proton collision data with the ATLAS detector. A search for events with large missing transverse momentum, jets, and at least two tau leptons has been performed using 2 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No excess above the Standard Model background expectation is observed and a 95% CL visible cross section upper limit for new phenomena is set. A 95% CL lower limit of 32 TeV is set on the GMSB breaking scale Lambda independent of tan(beta). These limits provide the most stringent tests to date in a large part of the considered parameter space.
Search for resonances in diphoton events at √(s)=13 TeV  with the ATLAS detector. Searches for new resonances decaying into two photons in the ATLAS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider are described. The analysis is based on proton–proton collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 3.2 fb^-1 at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2015. Two searches are performed, one targeted at a spin-2 particle of mass larger than 500 GeV, using Randall–Sundrum graviton states as a benchmark model, and one optimized for a spin-0 particle of mass larger than 200 GeV. Varying both the mass and the decay width, the most significant deviation from the background-only hypothesis is observed at a diphoton invariant mass around 750 GeV with local significances of 3.8 and 3.9 standard deviations in the searches optimized for a spin-2 and spin-0 particle, respectively. The global significances are estimated to be 2.1 standard deviations for both analyses. The consistency between the data collected at 13 TeV and 8 TeV is also evaluated. Limits on the production cross section times branching ratio to two photons for the two  resonance types are reported.
Evidence for the 125 GeV Higgs boson decaying to a pair of τ leptons. A search for a standard model Higgs boson decaying into a pair of tau leptons is performed using events recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2011 and 2012. The dataset corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 inverse-femtobarns at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV, and 19.7 inverse-femtobarns at 8 TeV. Each tau lepton decays hadronically or leptonically to an electron or a muon, leading to six different final states for the tau-lepton pair, all considered in this analysis. An excess of events is observed over the expected background contributions, with a local significance larger than 3 standard deviations for m_H values between 115 and 130 GeV. The best fit of the observed H →τ-τ signal cross section for m_H = 125 GeV is 0.78 +/- 0.27 times the standard model expectation. These observations constitute evidence for the 125 GeV Higgs boson decaying to a pair of tau leptons.
Search for the neutral Higgs bosons of the Standard Model and the MSSM in e^+e^- collisions at √(s) = 189 GeV. Neutral Higgs bosons of the Standard Model and of the aresearched for in the data collected at a centre-of-mass energy of by the experiment at , with an integrated luminosity of . No evidence for a signal is found.A lower limit of at 95% confidence level is set on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson.In the , for ≥ 0.7 and for benchmark parameter choices, lower limits of and 82.6 are derived for the masses of the neutral Higgs bosons and , respectively.An update of the general parameter scan is alsopresented.
Search for Anomalous Production of Di-lepton Events with Missing Transverse Momentum in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s) = 183-209 GeV. In total 1317 di-lepton events with significant missing transverse momentum were identified in a total data sample of 680 pb-1 collected at e+e- centre-of-mass energies ranging from 183 GeV to 209 GeV. The number of di-lepton events, the dependence on centre-of-mass energy, and the event properties are consistent with expectations from Standard Model processes, predominantly W+W- production with both W bosons decaying leptonically. This topology is also an experimental signature for the pair production of new particles that decay to a charged lepton accompanied by one or more invisible particles. No evidence for new phenomena is apparent. Upper limits are presented on the production cross-section multiplied by the relevant branching ratio squared for sleptons, leptonically decaying charginos and charged Higgs bosons. Mass limits are also given.
Search for dark matter particles produced in association with a Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for dark matter (DM) particles is performed using events with a Higgs boson candidate and large missing transverse momentum. The analysis is based on proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search is performed in five Higgs boson decay channels: h→bb̅, γγ, τ^+τ^-, W^+W^-, and ZZ and the results from the individual channels are combined to maximize the sensitivity of the analysis. No significant excess over the expected standard model background is observed in any of the five channels or in their combination. Limits are set on DM production in the context of two simplified models. The results are also interpreted in terms of a spin-independent DM-nucleon scattering cross section and compared to those from direct-detection DM experiments. This is the first search for DM particles produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to a pair of W or Z bosons, and the first statistical combination based on five Higgs boson decay channels.
Search for MSSM Higgs bosons decaying to μ^+μ^- in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeVSearch for MSSM Higgs bosons decaying to μ^+μ^- in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is performed for neutral non-standard-model Higgs bosons decaying to two muons in the context of the minimal supersymmetric standard model (MSSM). Proton-proton collision data recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV were used, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search is sensitive to neutral Higgs bosons produced via the gluon fusion process or in association with a bb̅ quark pair. No significant deviations from the standard model expectation are observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set in the context of the m_h^mod+ and phenomenological MSSM scenarios on the parameter tanβ as a function of the mass of the pseudoscalar A boson, in the range from 130 to 600 GeV. The results are also used to set a model-independent limit on the product of the branching fraction for the decay into a muon pair and the cross section for the production of a scalar neutral boson, either via gluon fusion, or in association with b quarks, in the mass range from 130 to 1000 GeV.
Observation of a new boson at a mass of 125 GeV with the CMS experiment at the LHC. Results are presented from searches for the standard model Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 and 8 TeV in the CMS experiment at the LHC, using data samples corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1 inverse femtobarns at 7 TeV and 5.3 inverse femtobarns at 8 TeV. The search is performed in five decay modes: γγ, ZZ, WW, τ^+ τ^-, and bb̅. An excess of events is observed above the expected background, a local significance of 5.0 standard deviations, at a mass near 125 GeV, signalling the production of a new particle. The expected significance for a standard model Higgs boson of that mass is 5.8 standard deviations. The excess is most significant in the two decay modes with the best mass resolution, γγ and ZZ; a fit to these signals gives a mass of 125.3 ± 0.4 (stat.) ± 0.5 (syst.) GeV. The decay to two photons indicates that the new particle is a boson with spin different from one.
Search for a very light CP-odd neutral Higgs boson of the MSSM.
Search for invisible Higgs boson decays in e^+e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies up to 184 GeV. In a data sample of 78.3 pb^-1 collected in 1996 and 1997 by the ALEPH detector at centre-of-mass energies from 161 to 184 GeV, invisible decays of a Higgs boson have been searched for in the reaction e+e- –> hZ, where the Z can decay into e+e-, mu+mu- or qqbar. No evidence for a signal is found and limits on the production cross section are derived as a function of the Higgs boson mass. These results are combined with those obtained in an update of the analyses of the ALEPH data taken at LEP 1. For a production cross section equal to that of the minimal standard model Higgs boson, masses below 80 GeV/c^2 are excluded at 95% C.L.
Search for the neutral Higgs bosons of the MSSM and other two-doublet models.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) up to 202 GeV. The Standard Model Higgs boson is searched for in 233.2 pb-1 of data collected by the L3 detector at centre of mass energies from 192 GeV to 202 GeV. These data are consistent with the expectations of Standard Model processes and no evidence of a Higgs signal is observed. A lower limit on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson of 107.0 GeV is set at the 95% confidence level.
Search for the Higgs boson in the H → WW^(*)→ l^+ν l^-ν̅ decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Higgs boson has been performed in the H → WW^(*)→ l^+ν l^-ν̅ channel (l=e/μ) with an integrated luminosity of 2.05/fb of pp collisions at sqrts = 7 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess of events over the expected background is observed and limits on the Higgs boson production cross section are derived for a Higgs boson mass in the range 110<mH<300 GeV. The observations exclude the presence of a Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass 145<mH<206 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Evidence for associated production of a Higgs boson with a top quark pair in final states with electrons, muons, and hadronically decaying τ leptons at √(s) = 13 TeV. Results of a search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top quark pair (ttH) in final states with electrons, muons, and hadronically decaying τ leptons are presented. The analyzed data set corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 recorded in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV by the CMS experiment in 2016. The sensitivity of the search is improved by using matrix element and machine learning methods to separate the signal from backgrounds. The measured signal rate amounts to 1.23 ^+0.45_-0.43 times the production rate expected in the standard model, with an observed (expected) significance of 3.2σ (2.8σ), which represents evidence for ttH production in those final states. An upper limit on the signal rate of 2.1 times the standard model production rate is set at 95% confidence level.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅ bb̅ final state from pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson pair production pp → hh is performed with 19.5 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data at √(s)= 8 TeV, which were recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in 2012. The decay products of each Higgs boson are reconstructed as a high-momentum bb̅ system with either a pair of small-radius jets or a single large-radius jet, the latter exploiting jet substructure techniques and associated b-tagged track-jets. No evidence for resonant or non-resonant Higgs boson pair production is observed. The data are interpreted in the context of the Randall–Sundrum model with a warped extra dimension as well as the two-Higgs-doublet model. An upper limit on the cross-section for pp → G^*_KK→ hh → bb̅ bb̅ of 3.2 (2.3) fb is set for a Kaluza–Klein graviton G^*_KK mass of 1.0 (1.5) TeV, at the 95% confidence level. The search for non-resonant Standard Model hh production sets an observed 95% confidence level upper limit on the production cross-section σ(pp → hh → bb̅bb̅) of 202 fb, compared to a SM prediction of σ(pp → hh → bb̅bb̅) = 3.6 ± 0.5 fb.
Measurements of Higgs boson properties in the diphoton decay channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. Measurements of Higgs boson properties in the H→γγ decay channel are reported. The analysis is based on data collected by the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV during the 2016 LHC running period, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.6 fb^-1. Allowing the Higgs mass to float, the measurement yields a signal strength relative to the standard model prediction of 1.18^+0.17_-0.14=1.18^+0.12_-0.11 (stat) ^+0.09_-0.07 (syst) ^+0.07_-0.06 (theo), which is largely insensitive to the exact Higgs mass around 125 GeV. Signal strengths associated with the different Higgs boson production mechanisms, couplings to bosons and fermions, and effective couplings to photons and gluons are also measured.
Search for resonances in the mass spectrum of muon pairs produced in association with b quark jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 and 13 TeV. A search for resonances in the mass range 12-70 GeV produced in association with a b quark jet and a second jet, and decaying to a muon pair, is reported. The analysis is based on data from proton-proton collisions at center-of-mass energies of 8 and 13 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the LHC and corresponding to integrated luminosities of 19.7 and 35.9 fb^-1, respectively. The search is carried out in two mutually exclusive event categories. Events in the first category are required to have a b quark jet in the central region (|η|≤ 2.4) and at least one jet in the forward region (|η|>2.4). Events in the second category are required to have two jets in the central region, at least one of which is identified as a b quark jet, no jets in the forward region, and low missing transverse momentum. An excess of events above the background near a dimuon mass of 28 GeV is observed in the 8 TeV data, corresponding to local significances of 4.2 and 2.9 standard deviations for the first and second event categories, respectively. A similar analysis conducted with the 13 TeV data results in a mild excess over the background in the first event category corresponding to a local significance of 2.0 standard deviations, while the second category results in a 1.4 standard deviation deficit. The fiducial cross section measurements and 95% confidence level upper limits on those for a resonance consistent with the 8 TeV excess are provided at both collision energies.
Measurement of the production cross section for a Higgs boson in association with a vector boson in the H → WW^∗→ℓνℓν channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A measurement of the Higgs boson production cross sections  via associated WH and ZH production using H → WW^∗→ℓνℓν decays,  where ℓ stands for either an electron or a muon,  is presented. Results for combined WH and ZH production are also presented. The analysis uses events produced in proton-proton collisions collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in 2015 and 2016. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The products of the H → WW^∗ branching fraction times the WH and ZH cross sections are measured to be 0.67^+0.31_-0.27(stat.)^+0.18_-0.14(syst.) pb and 0.54^+0.31_-0.24(stat.)^+0.15_-0.07(syst.) pb respectively, in agreement with the Standard Model predictions.
Search for pair production of up-type vector-like quarks and for four-top-quark events in final states with multiple b-jets with the ATLAS detector. A search for pair production of up-type vector-like quarks (T) with a significant branching ratio into a top quark and either a Standard Model Higgs boson or a Z boson is presented. The same analysis is also used to search for four-top-quark production in several new physics scenarios. The search is based on a dataset of pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. Data are analysed in the lepton+jets final state, characterised by an isolated electron or muon with high transverse momentum, large missing transverse momentum and multiple jets, as well as the jets+E_T^miss final state, characterised by multiple jets and large missing transverse momentum. The search exploits the high multiplicity of jets identified as originating from b-quarks, and the presence of boosted, hadronically decaying top quarks and Higgs bosons reconstructed as large-radius jets, characteristic of signal events. No significant excess above the Standard Model expectation is observed, and 95% CL upper limits are set on the production cross sections for the different signal processes considered. These cross-section limits are used to derive lower limits on the mass of a vector-like T quark under several branching ratio hypotheses assuming contributions from T → Wb, Zt, Ht decays. The 95% CL observed lower limits on the T quark mass range between 0.99 TeV and 1.43 TeV for all possible values of the branching ratios into the three decay modes considered, significantly extending the reach beyond that of previous searches. Additionally, upper limits on anomalous four-top-quark production are set in the context of an effective field theory model, as well as in an universal extra dimensions model.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson in e^+ e^- Interactions at 161 ≤√(s)≤ 172 GeV. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson has been performed with the L3 detector at LEP. The data sample was collected at three centre-of-mass energies, 161.3, 170.3 and 172.3 GeV with integrated luminosities of 10.8, 1.0 and 9.2 pb^-1, respectively. No Higgs signal is observed. In combination with previous data taken at the Z resonance, a lower Higgs mass limit, M_H > 69.5 GeV, is obtained at 95% confidence level.
Measurements of BR(b →τ^-ν_τX) and BR(b →τ^-ν_τ D^*±X) and Upper Limits on BR(B^-→τ^-ν_τ) and BR(b → sνν). Inclusive branching ratios involving b to tau transitions are measured in approximately four million hadronic Z decays collected by the ALEPH detector at LEP. The fully-inclusive branching ratio b -> tau nu X and the semi-inclusive branching ratio b -> tau nu D*+/- X are measured to be (2.43 +/- 0.20 +/- 0.25)% and (0.88 +/- 0.31 +/- 0.28)%, in agreement with the standard model predictions. Upper limits on the branching fractions b -> tau nu and b -> s nu nubar are set to 8.3 10**-4 and 6.4 10**-4 at the 90% C.L. These results allow a 90% C.L. lower limit of 0.40 (GeV/c**2)**-1 to be set on the tan(beta)/mH+/- ratio, in the framework of type-II two-Higgs-doublet models.
Search for heavy resonances decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the qq̅^(')bb̅ final state in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy resonances decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the qq̅^(')bb̅ final state is described. The search uses 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider in 2015 and 2016. The data are in agreement with the Standard Model expectations, with the largest excess found at a resonance mass of 3.0 TeV with a local (global) significance of 3.3 (2.1) σ. The results are presented in terms of constraints on a simplified model with a heavy vector triplet. Upper limits are set on the production cross-section times branching ratio for resonances decaying to a W (Z) boson and a Higgs boson, itself decaying to bb̅, in the mass range between 1.1 and 3.8 TeV; the limits range between 83 and 1.6 fb (77 and 1.1 fb) at 95% confidence level.
Search for non-resonant Higgs boson pair production in the  bbℓνℓν final state with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for non-resonant Higgs boson pair production, as predicted by the Standard Model, is presented, where one of the Higgs bosons decays via the H→ bb channel and the other via one of the H → WW^*/ZZ^*/ττ channels. The analysis selection requires events to have at least two b-tagged jets and exactly two leptons (electrons or muons) with opposite electric charge in the final state. Candidate events consistent with Higgs boson pair production are selected using a multi-class neural network discriminant. The analysis uses 139 fb^-1 of pp collision data recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. An observed (expected) upper limit of 1.2 (0.9^+0.4_-0.3) pb is set on the non-resonant Higgs boson pair production cross-section at 95% confidence level, which is equivalent to 40 (29^+14_-9) times the value predicted in the Standard Model.
Measurement of inclusive and differential cross sections in the H → ZZ^* → 4ℓ decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Inclusive and differential fiducial cross sections of Higgs boson production in proton-proton collisions are measured in the H → ZZ^* → 4ℓ decay channel. The proton-proton collision data were produced at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. The inclusive fiducial cross section in the H → ZZ^* → 4ℓ decay channel is measured to be 3.62 ± 0.50 (stat) ^+0.25_-0.20 (sys) fb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction of 2.91 ± 0.13 fb. The cross section is also extrapolated to the total phase space including all Standard Model Higgs boson decays. Several differential fiducial cross sections are measured for observables sensitive to the Higgs boson production and decay, including kinematic distributions of jets produced in association with the Higgs boson. Good agreement is found between data and Standard Model predictions. The results are used to put constraints on anomalous Higgs boson interactions with Standard Model particles, using the pseudo-observable extension to the kappa-framework.
Search for Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model Higgs bosons H/A and for a Z^' boson in the ττ final state produced in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS Detector. A search for neutral Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM) and for a heavy neutral Z^' boson is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 3.2 fb^-1 from proton–proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC.  The heavy resonance is assumed to decay to a τ^+ τ^- pair with at least one τ lepton decaying to final states with hadrons and a neutrino. The search is performed in the mass range of 0.2–1.2 TeV for the MSSM neutral Higgs bosons and 0.5–2.5 TeV for the heavy neutral Z^' boson.  The data are in good agreement with the background predicted by the Standard Model and hence results are given as upper limits on the production cross section times branching fraction of the boson decay to τ^+τ^- as a function of the boson mass.  The results are interpreted in  MSSM and Z^' benchmark scenarios.  The most stringent MSSM parameter space constraints for the Higgs boson search exclude at 95% confidence level (CL) tanβ > 7.6 for m_A = 200 GeV in the m_h^mod+ MSSM scenario.   This analysis extends the MSSM limits from previous searches for the mass range m_A > 500 GeV. For the Sequential Standard Model, a Z^'_SSM mass up to 1.90 TeV is excluded at 95% CL and masses up to 1.82–2.17 TeV are excluded for a Z^'_SFM of the Strong Flavour Model.
Search for an invisibly-decaying Higgs boson at LEP. A search for a Higgs boson produced in e^+e^- collisions in association with a Z boson and decaying into invisible particles is performed. Data collected at LEP with the L3 detector at centre-of-mass energies from 189 GeV to 209 GeV are used, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 0.63/fb. Events with hadrons, electrons or muons with visible masses compatible with a Z boson and missing energy and momentum are selected. They are consistent with the Standard Model expectations. A lower limit of 112.3 GeV is set at 95% confidence level on the mass of the invisibly-decaying Higgs boson in the hypothesis that its production cross section equals that of the Standard Model Higgs boson. Relaxing this hypothesis, upper limits on the production cross section are derived.
Energy calibration and resolution of the CMS electromagnetic calorimeter in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. The energy calibration and resolution of the electromagnetic calorimeter (ECAL) of the CMS detector have been determined using proton-proton collision data from LHC operation in 2010 and 2011 at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=7 TeV with integrated luminosities of about 5 inverse femtobarns. Crucial aspects of detector operation, such as the environmental stability, alignment, and synchronization, are presented. The in-situ calibration procedures are discussed in detail and include the maintenance of the calibration in the challenging radiation environment inside the CMS detector. The energy resolution for electrons from Z-boson decays is better than 2% in the central region of the ECAL barrel (for pseudorapidity abs(eta) < 0.8) and is 2-5% elsewhere. The derived energy resolution for photons from 125 GeV Higgs boson decays varies across the barrel from 1.1% to 2.6% and from 2.2% to 5% in the entraps. The calibration of the absolute energy is determined from Z → e^+e^- decays to a precision of 0.4% in the barrel and 0.8% in the endcaps.
A Measurement of Semileptonic B Decays to Narrow Orbitally-Excited Charm Mesons. The decay chain b -> Bbar -> D^**0 l nu X, D^**0 -> D^*+ pi^-, D^*+ -> D^0 pi^+, D^0 ->(Kpi or K3pi) is identified in a sample of 3.9 million hadronic Z decays collected with the OPAL detector at LEP. The branching ratio BR (b -> Bbar) x BR (Bbar -> D^0_1 l nu X) x BR (D^0_1 -> D^*+ pi^-) is measured to be (2.64 +- 0.79 (stat) +- 0.39 (syst)) X 10^-3 for the J^P = 1^+ (D^0_1) state. For decays into the J^P = 2^+ (D^*0_2) state, an upper limit of 1.4 X 10^-3 is placed on the branching ratio at the 95% confidence level.
Searches for new particles in Z decays using the ALEPH detector.
Search for the neutral Higgs boson from Z0 decay in the Higgs mass range between 11 and 24 GeV.
Search for Higgs boson decays into a Z boson and a light hadronically  decaying resonance using 13 TeV pp collision data from the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson decays into a Z boson and a light resonance in two-lepton plus jet events is performed, using a pp collision dataset with an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 collected at √(s)=13 TeV by the ATLAS experiment at the CERN LHC. The resonance considered is a light boson with a mass below 4 GeV from a possible extended scalar sector, or a charmonium state. Multivariate discriminants are used for the event selection and for evaluating the mass of the light resonance. No excess of events above the expected background is found. Observed (expected) 95% confidence-level upper limits are set on the Higgs boson production cross section times branching fraction to a Z boson and the signal resonance, with values in the range 17 pb to 340 pb (16^+6_-5 pb to 320^+130_-90 pb) for the different light spin-0 boson mass and branching fraction hypotheses, and with values of 110 pb and 100 pb (100^+40_-30 pb and 100^+40_-30 pb) for the η_c and J/ψ hypotheses, respectively.
Search for flavor-changing neutral currents in top quark decays t→ Hc and t → Hu in multilepton final states in proton–proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Flavor-changing neutral currents are not present in the Standard Model at tree level and are suppressed in loop processes by the unitarity of the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix; the corresponding rates for top quark decay processes are experimentally unobservable. Extensions of the Standard Model can generate new flavor-changing neutral current processes, leading to signals which, if observed, would be unambiguous evidence of new interactions. A dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of √(s)= 13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider is used to search for top quarks decaying to up or charm quarks with the emission of a Higgs boson, with subsequent Higgs boson decay to final states with at least one electron or muon. No signal is observed and limits on the branching fractions ℬ(t → Hc)
Search for resonances decaying to a pair of Higgs bosons in the bb̅qq̅'ℓν final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeVSearch for resonances decaying to a pair of Higgs bosons in the bbqq'ℓν final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for new massive particles decaying into a pair of Higgs bosons in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV is presented. Data were collected with the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search is performed for resonances with a mass between 0.8 and 3.5 TeV using events in which one Higgs boson decays into a bottom quark pair and the other decays into two W bosons that subsequently decay into a lepton, a neutrino, and a quark pair. The Higgs boson decays are reconstructed with techniques that identify final state quarks as substructure within boosted jets. The data are consistent with standard model expectations. Exclusion limits are placed on the product of the cross section and branching fraction for generic spin-0 and spin-2 massive resonances. The results are interpreted in the context of radion and bulk graviton production in models with a warped extra spatial dimension. These are the best results to date from searches for an HH resonance decaying to this final state, and they are comparable to the results from searches in other channels for resonances with masses below 1.5 TeV.
Search for a new resonance decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the ℓℓ/ ℓν/ νν + b b̅ final states with the ATLAS Detector. A search for a new resonance decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the ℓℓ/ ℓν/ νν + b b̅ final states is performed using 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collision data recorded at √(s)= 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The search is conducted by examining the WH/ZH invariant mass distribution for a localized excess. No significant deviation from the Standard Model background prediction is observed. The results are interpreted in terms of constraints on the Minimal Walking Technicolor model and on a simplified approach based on a phenomenological Lagrangian of Heavy Vector Triplets.
Search for pair production of Higgs bosons in the bb̅bb̅ final state  using proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs-boson pair production in the bb̅bb̅ final state  is carried out with 3.2 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data collected at  √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The data are consistent with the estimated background and are used to set upper limits on the production cross section of Higgs-boson pairs times  branching ratio to bb̅bb̅ for both nonresonant and resonant production. In the case of resonant production of Kaluza–Klein gravitons within the Randall–Sundrum model, upper limits in the 24 to 91 fb range are  obtained for masses between 600 and 3000 GeV, at the 95% confidence level. The production cross section times branching ratio for nonresonant Higgs-boson pairs  is also constrained to be less than 1.22 pb, at the 95% confidence level.
Search for neutral higgs bosons of the minimal supersymmetric standard model in e^+e^- Interactions at √(s)= 189 GeV. A search for the lightest neutral scalar and neutral pseudoscalar Higgs bosons in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model is performed using 176.4 pb^-1 of integrated luminosity collected by L3 at a center-of-mass energy of 189 GeV. No signal is observed, and the data are consistent with the expected Standard Model background. Lower limits on the masses of the lightest neutral scalar and pseudoscalar Higgs bosons are given as a function of tanβ. Lower mass limits for tanβ > 1 are set at the 95% confidence level to be m_ h > 77.1 GeV and m_ A > 77.1 GeV.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a W or a Z boson and decaying to bottom quarks. A search for the standard model Higgs boson (H) decaying to bb̅ when produced in association with a weak vector boson (V) is reported for the following channels: W(μν)H, W(eν)H, W(τν)H, Z(μμ)H, Z(ee)H, and Z(νν)H. The search is performed in data samples corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 7 TeV and up to 18.9 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 8 TeV, recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC. An excess of events is observed above the expected background with a local significance of 2.1 standard deviations for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, consistent with the expectation from the production of the standard model Higgs boson. The signal strength corresponding to this excess, relative to that of the standard model Higgs boson, is 1.0 +/- 0.5.
Search for top-quark decays t → Hq with 36 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for flavour-changing neutral current decays of a top quark into an up-type quark (q=u, c) and the Standard Model Higgs boson, t→ Hq, is presented. The search is based on a dataset of pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. Two complementary analyses are performed that search for top-quark pair events in which one top quark decays into Wb and the other top quark decays into Hq, and target the H→ bb̅ and H→τ^+τ^- decay modes, respectively. The high multiplicity of b-quark jets, or the presence of hadronically decaying τ-leptons, are exploited in the two analyses respectively. Multivariate techniques are used to separate the signal from the background, which is dominated by top-quark pair production. No significant excess of events above the background expectation is found, and 95% CL upper limits on the t→ Hq branching ratios are derived. The combination of these searches with ATLAS searches in diphoton and multilepton final states yields observed (expected) 95% CL upper limits on the t→ Hc and t→ Hu branching ratios of 1.1 × 10^-3 (8.3 × 10^-4) and 1.2 × 10^-3 (8.3 × 10^-4), respectively. The corresponding combined observed (expected) upper limits on the |λ_tcH| and |λ_tuH| couplings are 0.064 (0.055) and 0.066 (0.055), respectively.
Search for a low-mass τ^-τ^+ resonance in association with a bottom quark in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A general search is presented for a low-mass τ^-τ^+ resonance produced in association with a bottom quark. The search is based on proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 . The data are consistent with the standard model expectation. Upper limits at 95% confidence level on the cross section times branching fraction are determined for two signal models: a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson decaying to a pair of τ leptons produced in association with bottom quarks, and a low-mass boson A decaying to a τ-lepton pair that is produced in the decay of a bottom-like quark B such that B → bA. Masses between 25 and 70 GeV are probed for the light pseudoscalar boson with upper limits ranging from 250 to 44 pb. Upper limits from 20 to 0.3 pb are set on B masses between 170 and 450 GeV for A boson masses between 20 and 70 GeV.
Search for neutral Higgs boson production through the process e+e- → Z^∗ H^0. The results of the searches for neutral Higgs boson production in the process e+e- → Z∗ H^0 are reported, focusing on Higgs boson masses below 70 GeV. The data sample consists of three million hadronic Z decays collected by the L3 experiment at LEP from 1991 through 1994. No signal is found leading to a lower limit on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson of 60.2 GeV at 95% C.L. These results are also interpreted in the framework of the General Two Doublet Model and limits on the non standard Higgs boson production through the process e+e- → Z∗ H^0 are set. A lower limit of 66.7 GeV at 95% C.L. is obtained for the case where the Higgs decays into an invisible final state.
Search for long-lived particles that decay into final states containing two electrons or two muons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search is performed for long-lived particles that decay into final states that include a pair of electrons or a pair of muons. The experimental signature is a distinctive topology consisting of a pair of charge dleptons originating from a displaced secondary vertex. Events corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.6 (20.5) fb^-1 in the electron (muon) channel were collected with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. No significant excess is observed above standard model expectations. Upper limits on the product of the cross section and branching fraction of such a signal are presented as a function of the long-lived particle's mean proper decay length. The limits are presented in an approximately model-independent way, allowing them to be applied to a wide class of models yielding the above topology. Over much of the investigated parameter space, the limits obtained are the most stringent to date. In the specific case of a model in which a Higgs boson in the mass range 125-1000 GeV/c^2 decays into a pair of long-lived neutral bosons in the mass range 20-350 GeV/c^2, each of which can then decay to dileptons, the upper limits obtained are typically in the range 0.2-10 fb for mean proper decay lengths of the long-lived particles in the range 0.01-100 cm. In the case of the lowest Higgs mass considered (125 GeV/c^2), the limits are in the range 2-50 fb. These limits are sensitive to Higgs boson branching fractions as low as 10^-4.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) = 130-172 GeV. A search is described to detect charged Higgs bosons via the process e^+e^- -> H^+H^-, using data collected by the OPAL detector at center-of-mass energies of 130-172 GeV with a total integrated luminosity of 25 pb^-1. The decay channels are assumed to be H^+ -> qq'(bar) and H^+ -> τ^+ ν_τ. No evidence for charged Higgs boson production is observed. The lower limit for its mass is determined to be 52 GeV at 95% confidence level, independent of the H^+ -> τ^+ ν_τ branching ratio.
Search for Higgs boson production in association with a high-energy photon via vector-boson fusion with decay into bottom quark pairs at √(s)=13TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for the production of the Standard Model Higgs boson in association with a high-energy photon. With a focus on the vector-boson fusion process and the dominant Higgs boson decay into b-quark pairs, the search benefits from a large reduction of multijet background compared to more inclusive searches. Results are reported from the analysis of 132 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s)=13 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The measured Higgs boson signal yield in this final-state signature is 1.3 ± 1.0 times the Standard Model prediction. The observed significance of the Higgs boson signal above the background is 1.3 standard deviations, compared to an expected significance of 1.0 standard deviations.
Searches for the standard Higgs boson produced in the reaction e^+e^-→ H^0Z.
Search for invisible Higgs boson decays in e^+e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies up to 184 GeV. In a data sample of 78.3 pb^-1 collected in 1996 and 1997 by the ALEPH detector at centre-of-mass energies from 161 to 184 GeV, invisible decays of a Higgs boson have been searched for in the reaction e+e- –> hZ, where the Z can decay into e+e-, mu+mu- or qqbar. No evidence for a signal is found and limits on the production cross section are derived as a function of the Higgs boson mass. These results are combined with those obtained in an update of the analyses of the ALEPH data taken at LEP 1. For a production cross section equal to that of the minimal standard model Higgs boson, masses below 80 GeV/c^2 are excluded at 95% C.L.
Search for the associated production of a Higgs boson with a single top quark in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. This paper presents the search for the production of a Higgs boson in association with a single top quark, using data collected in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The search exploits a variety of Higgs boson decay modes resulting in final states with photons, bottom quarks, and multiple charged leptons, including tau leptons, and employs a variety of multivariate techniques to maximize sensitivity to the signal.The analysis is optimized for the opposite sign of the Yukawa coupling to that in the standard model and corresponding to a large enhancement of the signal cross section. In the absence of an excess of candidate signal events over the background predictions, 95% confidence level observed (expected) upper limits on anomalous tHq production are set, ranging between 600 (450) fb and 1000 (700) fb depending on the assumed diphoton branching fraction of the Higgs boson. This is the first time that results on anomalous tHq production have been reported.
Search for vector-like quarks in events with two oppositely charged leptons and jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for the pair production of heavy vector-like partners T and B of the top and bottom quarks has been performed by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC using proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. The data sample was collected in 2016 and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Final states studied for TT production include those where one of the T quarks decays via T → tZ and the other via T → bW, tZ, or tH, where H is a Higgs boson. For the BB case, final states include those where one of the B quarks decays via B → bZ and the other B → tW, bZ, or bH. Events with two oppositely charged electrons or muons, consistent with coming from the decay of a Z boson, and jets are investigated. The number of observed events is consistent with standard model background estimations. Lower limits at 95% confidence level are placed on the masses of the T and B quarks for a range of branching fractions. Assuming 100% branching fractions for T → tZ, and B → bZ, T and B quark mass values below 1280 and 1130 GeV, respectively, are excluded.
Search for chargino and neutralino production in final states with a Higgs boson and missing transverse momentum at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is conducted for the electroweak pair production of a chargino and a neutralino pp →χ̃^±_1 χ̃^0_2, where the chargino decays into the lightest neutralino and a W boson, χ̃^±_1 →χ̃^0_1 W^±, while the neutralino decays into the lightest neutralino and a Standard Model-like 125 GeV Higgs boson, χ̃^0_2 →χ̃^0_1 h. Fully hadronic, semileptonic, diphoton, and multilepton (electrons, muons) final states with missing transverse momentum are considered in this search. Higgs bosons in the final state are identified by either two jets originating from bottom quarks (h → bb̅), two photons (h →γγ), or leptons from the decay modes h → WW, h → ZZ or h →ττ. The analysis is based on 36.1 fb^-1 of √(s) = 13 TeV proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. Observations are consistent with the Standard Model expectations, and 95% confidence-level limits of up to 680 GeV in χ̃^±_1/χ̃^0_2 mass are set in the context of a simplified supersymmetric model.
Search for electroweak production of supersymmetric states in scenarios with compressed mass spectra at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for electroweak production of supersymmetric particles in scenarios with compressed mass spectra in final states with two low-momentum leptons and missing transverse momentum is presented. This search uses proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in 2015-2016, corresponding to 36.1 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity at √(s)=13 TeV. Events with same-flavor pairs of electrons or muons with opposite electric charge are selected. The data are found to be consistent with the Standard Model prediction. Results are interpreted using simplified models of R-parity-conserving supersymmetry in which there is a small mass difference between the masses of the produced supersymmetric particles and the lightest neutralino. Exclusion limits at 95% confidence level are set on next-to-lightest neutralino masses of up to 145 GeV for Higgsino production and 175 GeV for wino production, and slepton masses of up to 190 GeV for pair production of sleptons. In the compressed mass regime, the exclusion limits extend down to mass splittings of 2.5 GeV for Higgsino production, 2 GeV for wino production, and 1 GeV for slepton production. The results are also interpreted in the context of a radiatively-driven natural supersymmetry model with non-universal Higgs boson masses.
A search for pair production of new light bosons decaying into muons in proton-proton collisions at 13 TeV. A search for new light bosons decaying into muon pairs is presented using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC. The search is model independent, only requiring the pair production of a new light boson and its subsequent decay to a pair of muons. No significant deviation from the predicted background is observed. A model independent limit is set on the product of the production cross section times branching fraction to dimuons squared times acceptance as a function of new light boson mass. This limit varies between 0.16 and 0.45 fb over a range of new light boson masses from 0.25 to 8.5 GeV. It is then interpreted in the context of the next-to-minimal supersymmetric standard model and a dark supersymmetry model that allows for nonnegligible light boson lifetimes. In both cases, there is significant improvement over previously published limits.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with a vector boson and decaying to a b-quark pair with the ATLAS detector. This Letter presents the results of a direct search with the ATLAS detector at the LHC for a Standard Model Higgs boson of mass 110 ≤ m_H ≤ 130 GeV produced in association with a W or Z boson and decaying to bb̅. Three decay channels are considered: ZH → l^+ l^- bb̅, WH → lν bb̅, and ZH →νν̅bb̅, where l corresponds to an electron or a muon. No evidence for Higgs boson production is observed in a dataset of 7 TeV pp collisions corresponding to 4.7/fb of integrated luminosity collected by ATLAS in 2011. Exclusion limits on Higgs boson production, at the 95% confidence level, of 2.5 to 5.5 times the Standard Model cross section are obtained in the mass range 110 - 130 GeV. The expected exclusion limits range between 2.5 and 4.9 for the same mass interval.
Combined search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A combined search for the Standard Model Higgs boson with the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. The datasets used correspond to integrated luminosities from 4.6 fb^-1 to 4.9 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions collected at √(s) = 7 TeV in 2011. The Higgs boson mass ranges of 111.4 GeV to 116.6 GeV, 119.4 GeV to 122.1 GeV, and 129.2 GeV to 541 GeV are excluded at the 95% confidence level, while the range 120 GeV to 560 GeV is expected to be excluded in the absence of a signal. An excess of events is observed at Higgs boson mass hypotheses around 126 GeV with a local significance of 2.9 standard deviations (σ). The global probability for the background to produce an excess at least as significant anywhere in the entire explored Higgs boson mass range of 110-600 GeV is estimated to be  15%, corresponding to a significance of approximately one sigma.
Measurement of differential cross sections for Higgs boson production in the diphoton decay channel in pp collisions at √(s)= 8 TeV. A measurement is presented of differential cross sections for the Higgs boson (H) production in pp collisions at √(s)= 8 TeV. The analysis exploits the H→γγ decay in data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The cross section is measured as a function of the kinematic properties of the diphoton system and of the associated jets. Results corrected for detector effects are compared with predictions at next-to-leading order and next-to-next-to-leading order in perturbative quantum chromodynamics, as well as with predictions beyond the standard model.For isolated photons with pseudorapidities | η | lower than 2.5, and with the photon of largest and next-to-largest transverse momentum (p_T^γ) divided by the diphoton mass m_γγ satisfying the respective conditions of p_T^γ/m_γγ larger than 1/3 and 1/4, the total fiducial cross section is 32 ± 10 fb.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) = 181-184 GeV. Data collected at centre-of-mass energies of 181-184 GeV by ALEPH at LEP, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 56.9 pb^-1, are analysed in a search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons H+-. Three analyses are employed to select the tau nu tau nu, tau nu c s and c s c s final states. No evidence for a signal is found. Mass limits are set as a function of the branching fraction B( H+ -> tau+ nu ). Under the assumption that the decay modes considered cover the totality of the possible final states, charged Higgs bosons with masses below 59 GeV/c^2 are excluded at 95% C.L. independently of B( H+ -> tau+ nu ).
Search for dijet resonances in events with an isolated charged lepton  using √(s) = 13 TeV proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS detector. A search for dijet resonances in events with at least one isolated charged lepton is performed using 139 fb^-1 of √(s)=13 TeV proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The dijet invariant-mass (m_jj) distribution constructed from events with at least one isolated electron or muon is searched in the region 0.22 < m_jj < 6.3 TeV for excesses above a smoothly falling background from Standard Model processes. Triggering based on the presence of a lepton in the event reduces limitations imposed by minimum transverse momentum thresholds for triggering on jets. This approach allows smaller dijet invariant masses to be probed than in inclusive dijet searches, targeting a variety of new-physics models, for example ones in which a new state is produced in association with a leptonically decaying W or Z boson. No statistically significant deviation from the Standard Model background hypothesis is found. Limits on contributions from generic Gaussian signals with widths ranging from that determined by the detector resolution up to 15% of the resonance mass are obtained for dijet invariant masses ranging from 0.25 TeV to 6 TeV. Limits are set also in the context of several scenarios beyond the Standard Model, such as the Sequential Standard Model, a technicolor model, a charged Higgs boson model and a simplified Dark Matter model.
Search for the production of a long-lived neutral particle decaying within the ATLAS hadronic calorimeter in association with a Z boson from pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. This Letter presents a search for the production  of a long-lived neutral particle decaying within the ATLAS hadronic calorimeter, in association with a Standard Model Z boson produced via an intermediate scalar boson, where  Z → l^+ l^- (l=e,μ). The data used were collected by the ATLAS detector during 2015 and 2016 pp collisions with a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. No significant excess of events is observed above the expected background. Limits on the production cross section of the scalar boson times its decay branching fraction into the long-lived neutral particle are derived as a function of the mass of the intermediate scalar boson, the mass of the long-lived neutral particle, and its cτ from a few centimeters to one hundred meters.  In the case that the intermediate scalar boson is the SM Higgs boson, its decay branching fraction to a long-lived neutral particle with a cτ approximately between 0.1 m  and 7 m is excluded with a 95% confidence level up to 10% for m_Z_d between 5 and 15 GeV.
Searches for Higgs bosons.
The status of searches for the Standard Model Higgs boson at LEP.
Search for a charged Higgs boson decaying to charm and bottom quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for charged Higgs boson decaying to a charm and a bottom quark (H^+→cb̅) is performed using 19.7 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV. The production mechanism investigated in this search is tt̅ pair production in which one top quark decays to a charged Higgs boson and a bottom quark and the other decays to a charged lepton, a neutrino, and a bottom quark. Charged Higgs boson decays to cb̅ are searched for, resulting in a final state containing at least four jets, a charged lepton (muon or electron), and missing transverse momentum. A kinematic fit is performed to identify the pair of jets least likely to be the bottom quarks originating from direct top quark decays and the invariant mass of this pair is used as the final observable in the search. No evidence for the presence of a charged Higgs boson is observed and upper limits at 95% confidence level of 0.8-0.5% are set on the branching fraction ℬ (t→H^+b ), assuming ℬ (H^+→cb̅ ) = 1.0 and ℬ (t→H^+b ) + ℬ (t→Wb ) = 1.0, for the charged Higgs boson mass range 90-150 GeV.
Measurement of the Branching Ratio for the Process b →τ^-ν_τX. The inclusive branching ratio for the process b -> tau nu X has been measured using hadronic Z decays collected by the OPAL experiment at LEP in the years 1992-2000. The result is: BR(b -> tau nu X) = (2.78 +/- 0.18 +/- 0.51)% This measurement is consistent with the Standard Model expectation and puts a constraint of tan(beta) / M(H+/-) < 0.53 GeV-1 at the 95% confidence level on Type II Two Higgs Doublet Models.
Search for charged Higgs bosons through the violation of lepton universality in tt̅ events using pp collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS experiment. In several extensions of the Standard Model, the top quark can decay into a bottom quark and a light charged Higgs boson H^+, t → bH^+, in addition to the Standard Model decay t → bW. Since W bosons decay to the three lepton generations equally, while H^+ may predominantly decay into τν, charged Higgs bosons can be searched for using the violation of lepton universality in top quark decays. The analysis in this paper is based on 4.6/fb of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. Signatures containing leptons (e or μ) and/or a hadronically decaying τ (τ_had) are used. Event yield ratios between e+τ_had and e+μ, as well as between μ+τ_had and μ+e, final states are measured in the data and compared to predictions from simulations. This ratio-based method reduces the impact of systematic uncertainties in the analysis. No significant deviation from the Standard Model predictions is observed. With the assumption that the branching fraction B(H^+ →τν) is 100%, upper limits in the range 3.2%-4.4% can be placed on the branching fraction B(t → bH^+) for charged Higgs boson masses m_H+ in the range 90-140 GeV. After combination with results from a search for charged Higgs bosons in ttbar decays using the τ_had+jets final state, upper limits on B(t → bH^+) can be set in the range 0.8%-3.4%, for m_H+ in the range 90-160 GeV.
Measurement of Higgs boson production in the diphoton decay channel in pp collisions at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A measurement of the production processes of the recently discovered Higgs boson is performed in the two-photon final state using 5.4 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions data at √(s)=7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 at √(s)=8 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The number of observed Higgs boson decays to diphotons divided by the corresponding Standard Model prediction, called the signal strength, is found to be μ = 1.17 ± 0.27 at the value of the Higgs boson mass measured by ATLAS, m_H = 125.4 GeV. The analysis is optimized to measure the signal strengths for individual Higgs boson production processes at this value of m_H. They are found to be μ_ggF = 1.32 ± 0.38, μ_VBF = 0.8 ± 0.7, μ_WH = 1.0 ± 1.6, μ_ZH = 0.1 ^+3.7_-0.1, μ_tt̅H = 1.6 ^+2.7_-1.8, for Higgs boson production through gluon fusion, vector-boson fusion, and in association with a W or Z boson or a top-quark pair, respectively. Compared with the previously published ATLAS analysis, the results reported here also benefit from a new energy calibration procedure for photons and the subsequent reduction of the systematic uncertainty on the diphoton mass resolution. No significant deviations from the predictions of the Standard Model are found.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson decaying into bb̅ produced in association with top quarks decaying hadronically in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson production in association with a pair of top quarks (tt̅H) is performed, where the Higgs boson decays to bb̅, and both top quarks decay hadronically. The data used correspond to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The search selects events with at least six energetic jets and uses a boosted decision tree algorithm to discriminate between signal and Standard Model background. The dominant multijet background is estimated using a dedicated data-driven technique. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, an upper limit of 6.4 (5.4) times the Standard Model cross section is observed (expected) at 95% confidence level. The best-fit value for the signal strength is μ = 1.6 ± 2.6 times the Standard Model expectation for m_H = 125 GeV. Combining all tt̅H searches carried out by ATLAS at √(s)=8 and 7 TeV, an observed (expected) upper limit of 3.1 (1.4) times the Standard Model expectation is obtained at 95% confidence level, with a signal strength μ = 1.7 ± 0.8.
Observation of an Excess in the Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson at ALEPH. A search has been performed for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the data sample collected with the ALEPH detector at LEP, at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. An excess of 3 σ beyond the background expectation is found, consistent with the production of the Higgs boson with a mass near 114 GeV=c^2 . Much of this excess is seen in the four-jet analyses, where three high purity events are selected.
Search for the Higgs boson in the H → WW^(*)→ l^+ν l^-ν̅ decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Higgs boson has been performed in the H → WW^(*)→ l^+ν l^-ν̅ channel (l=e/μ) with an integrated luminosity of 2.05/fb of pp collisions at sqrts = 7 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess of events over the expected background is observed and limits on the Higgs boson production cross section are derived for a Higgs boson mass in the range 110<mH<300 GeV. The observations exclude the presence of a Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass 145<mH<206 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Search for Scalar Diphoton Resonances in the Mass Range 65-600 GeV with the ATLAS Detector in pp Collision Data at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for scalar particles decaying via narrow resonances into two photons in the mass range 65-600 GeV is performed using 20.3 fb^-1 of √(s) = 8 TeV pp collision data collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The recently discovered Higgs boson is treated as a background. No significant evidence for an additional signal is observed. The results are presented as limits at the 95 % confidence level on the production cross-section of a scalar boson times branching ratio into two photons, in a fiducial volume where the reconstruction efficiency is approximately independent of the event topology. The upper limits set extend over a considerably wider mass range than previous searches.
Search for decays of the 125 GeV Higgs boson into a Z boson and a ρ or ϕ meson. Decays of the 125 GeV Higgs boson into a Z boson and a ρ^0(770) or ϕ(1020) meson are searched for using proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at √(s) = 13 TeV. The analysed data set corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. Events are selected in which the Z boson decays into a pair of electrons or a pair of muons, and the ρ and ϕ mesons decay into pairs of pions and kaons, respectively. No significant excess above the background model is observed. As different polarization states are possible for the decay products of the Z boson and ρ or ϕ mesons, affecting the signal acceptance, scenarios in which the decays are longitudinally or transversely polarized are considered. Upper limits at the 95% confidence level on the Higgs boson branching fractions into Zρ and Zϕ are determined to be 1.04-1.31% and 0.31-0.40%, respectively, where the ranges reflect the considered polarization scenarios; these values are 740-940 and 730-950 times larger than the respective standard model expectations. These results constitute the first experimental limits on the two decay channels.
Search for Anomalous Production of Di-lepton Events with Missing Transverse Momentum in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s) = 183-209 GeV. In total 1317 di-lepton events with significant missing transverse momentum were identified in a total data sample of 680 pb-1 collected at e+e- centre-of-mass energies ranging from 183 GeV to 209 GeV. The number of di-lepton events, the dependence on centre-of-mass energy, and the event properties are consistent with expectations from Standard Model processes, predominantly W+W- production with both W bosons decaying leptonically. This topology is also an experimental signature for the pair production of new particles that decay to a charged lepton accompanied by one or more invisible particles. No evidence for new phenomena is apparent. Upper limits are presented on the production cross-section multiplied by the relevant branching ratio squared for sleptons, leptonically decaying charginos and charged Higgs bosons. Mass limits are also given.
Search for resonant WZ production in the fully leptonic final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy resonance decaying into WZ in the fully leptonic channel (electrons and muons) is performed. It is based on proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. No significant excess is observed over the Standard Model predictions and limits are set on the production cross section times branching ratio of a heavy vector particle produced either in quark-antiquark fusion or through vector-boson fusion. Constraints are also obtained on the mass and couplings of a singly charged Higgs boson, in the Georgi-Machacek model, produced through vector-boson fusion.
Search for a high-mass Higgs boson decaying to a W boson pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a high-mass Higgs boson H is performed in the H→ WW→ℓνℓν and H→ WW→ℓνqq decay channels using pp collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 collected at √(s)= 8 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No evidence of a high-mass Higgs boson is found. Limits on σ_H×BR(H→ WW) as a function of the Higgs boson mass m_H are determined in three different scenarios: one in which the heavy Higgs boson has a narrow width compared to the experimental resolution, one for a width increasing with the boson mass and modeled by the complex-pole scheme following the same behavior as in the Standard Model, and one for intermediate widths. The upper range of the search is m_H=1500 GeV for the narrow-width scenario and m_H=1000 GeV for the other two scenarios. The lower edge of the search range is 200–300 GeV and depends on the analysis channel and search scenario. For each signal interpretation, individual and combined limits from the two WW decay channels are presented. At m_H = 1500 GeV, the highest-mass point tested, σ_H×BR(H→ WW) for a narrow-width Higgs boson is constrained to be less than 21 fb and 6.0 fb at 95% CL for the gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion production modes, respectively.
Search for light bosons in decays of the 125 GeV Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search is presented for decays beyond the standard model of the 125 GeV Higgs bosons to a pair of light bosons, based on models with extended scalar sectors. Light boson masses between 5 and 62.5 GeV are probed in final states containing four tau leptons, two muons and two b quarks, or two muons and two tau leptons. The results are from data in proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 inverse femtobarns, accumulated by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. No evidence for such exotic decays is found in the data. Upper limits are set on the product of the cross section and branching fraction for several signal processes. The results are also compared to predictions of two-Higgs-doublet models, including those with an additional scalar singlet.
Search for a Higgs Boson Decaying into Two Photons in e^+ e^- Interactions at √(s)= 189 GeV. A search is performed for a Higgs boson produced in association with a Z boson and decaying into two photons, using the L3 data collected at LEP at a centre-of-mass energy of 189 GeV. All decay modes of the Z are considered. No signal is observed and limits on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay into two photons as a function of the Higgs mass are derived assuming a Standard Model production rate. A lower limit on the mass of a fermiophobic Higgs is set at 94.9 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Direct Observation of Longitudinally Polarised W^± Bosons. The three different helicity states of W bosons, produced in the reaction e^+e^- → W^+W^- →ℓν q qare studied using leptonic and hadronic W decaysat √(s) = 183 GeV and 189 GeV. The W polarisation is also measured as a function of the scattering angle between the W^- and the direction of the e^- beam. The analysis demonstrates that W bosons are produced with all three helicities, the longitudinal and the two transverse states.Combining the results from the two center–of–mass energies and with leptonic and hadronic Wdecays, the fraction of longitudinally polarised W bosons ismeasured to be 0.261 ± 0.051(stat.) ± 0.016(syst.) in agreement with the expectation from the Standard Model.
A search for neutral Higgs bosons in the MSSM and models with two scalar field doublets. A search is described for the neutral Higgs bosons h^0 and A^0 predicted by models with two scalar field doublets and, in particular, the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). The search in the Z^0 h^0 and h^0 A^0 production channels is based on data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 25 pb^-1 from e^+e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies between 130 and 172GeV collected with the OPAL detector at LEP. The observation of a number of candidates consistent with Standard Model background expectations is used in combination with earlier results from data collected at the Z^0 resonance to set limits on m_h and m_A in general models with two scalar field doublets and in the MSSM. For example, in the MSSM, for tan(beta) > 1, minimal and maximal scalar top quark mixing and soft SUSY-breaking masses of 1 TeV, the 95% confidence level limits m_h > 59.0 GeV and m_A > 59.5 GeV are obtained. For the first time, the MSSM parameter space is explored in a detailed scan.
Limits on Higgs boson masses from combining the data of the four LEP experiments at √(s)≤ 183 GeV.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in the H^±→ tb decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV using the ATLAS detector. Charged Higgs bosons heavier than the top quark and decaying via H^±→ tb are searched for in proton–proton collisions measured with the ATLAS experiment at √(s)=8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. The production of a charged Higgs boson in association with a top quark, gb → tH^±, is explored in the mass range 200 to 600 GeV using multi-jet final states with one electron or muon. In order to separate the signal from the Standard Model background, analysis techniques combining several kinematic variables are employed. An excess of events above the background-only hypothesis is observed across a wide mass range, amounting to up to 2.4 standard deviations. Upper limits are set on the gb→ tH^± production cross section times the branching fraction BR(H^±→ tb). Additionally, the complementary s-channel production, qq' → H^±, is investigated through a reinterpretation of W' → tb searches in ATLAS. Final states with one electron or muon are relevant for H^± masses from 0.4 to 2.0 TeV, whereas the all-hadronic final state covers the range 1.5 to 3.0 TeV. In these search channels, no significant excesses from the predictions of the Standard Model are observed, and upper limits are placed on the qq' → H^± production cross section times the branching fraction BR(H^±→ tb).
Search for supersymmetry with Higgs boson to diphoton decays using the razor variables at √(s) = 13 TeV. An inclusive search for anomalous Higgs boson production in the diphoton decay channel and in association with at least one jet is presented, using LHC proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The razor variables M_R and R^2, as well as the momentum and mass resolution of the diphoton system, are used to categorize events into different search regions. The search result is interpreted in the context of strong and electroweak production of supersymmetric particles. We exclude bottom squark pair-production with masses below 450 GeV for bottom squarks decaying to a bottom quark, a Higgs boson, and the lightest supersymmetric particle (LSP) for LSP masses below 250 GeV. For wino-like chargino-neutralino production, we exclude charginos with mass below 170 GeV for LSP masses below 25 GeV. In the GMSB scenario, we exclude charginos with mass below 205 GeV for neutralinos decaying to a Higgs boson and a goldstino LSP with 100% branching fraction.
Constraints on new phenomena via Higgs boson couplings and invisible decays with the ATLAS detector. The ATLAS experiment at the LHC has measured the Higgs boson couplings and mass, and searched for invisible Higgs boson decays, using multiple production and decay channels with up to 4.7 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s)=7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 at √(s)=8 TeV. In the current study, the measured production and decay rates of the observed Higgs boson in the γγ, ZZ, WW, Zγ, bb, ττ, and μμ decay channels, along with results from the associated production of a Higgs boson with a top-quark pair, are used to probe the scaling of the couplings with mass. Limits are set on parameters in extensions of the Standard Model including a composite Higgs boson, an additional electroweak singlet, and two-Higgs-doublet models. Together with the measured mass of the scalar Higgs boson in the γγ and ZZ decay modes, a lower limit is set on the pseudoscalar Higgs boson mass of m_A>370 GeV in the “hMSSM” simplified Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model. Results from direct searches for heavy Higgs bosons are also interpreted in the hMSSM. Direct searches for invisible Higgs boson decays in the vector-boson fusion and associated production of a Higgs boson with W/Z (Z→ ll, W/Z → jj) modes are statistically combined to set an upper limit on the Higgs boson invisible branching ratio of 0.25. The use of the measured visible decay rates in a more general coupling fit improves the upper limit to 0.23, constraining a Higgs portal model of dark matter.
Search for the associated production of the Higgs boson with a top-quark pair. A search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair (tt̅H) is presented, using data samples corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1 fb^-1 and 19.7 fb^-1 collected in pp collisions at center-of-mass energies of 7 TeV and 8 TeV respectively. The search is based on the following signatures of the Higgs boson decay: H → hadrons, H → photons, and H → leptons. The results are characterized by an observed tt̅H signal strength relative to the standard model cross section, μ =σ/σ_SM, under the assumption that the Higgs boson decays as expected in the standard model. The best fit value is μ =2.8 ± 1.0 for a Higgs boson mass of 125.6 GeV.
Search for an invisibly decaying Higgs boson or dark matter candidates produced in association with a Z boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for an invisibly decaying Higgs boson or dark matter candidates produced in association with a leptonically decaying Z boson in proton–proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV is presented. This search uses 36.1 fb^-1 of data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant deviation from the expectation of the Standard Model backgrounds is observed. Assuming the Standard Model ZH production cross-section, an observed (expected) upper limit of 67% (39%) at the 95% confidence level is set on the branching ratio of invisible decays of the Higgs boson with mass m_H = 125 GeV. The corresponding limits on the production cross-section of the ZH process with the invisible Higgs boson decays are also presented. Furthermore, exclusion limits on the dark matter candidate and mediator masses are reported in the framework of simplified dark matter models.
Combined Measurement of the Higgs Boson Mass in pp Collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV with the ATLAS and CMS Experiments. A measurement of the Higgs boson mass is presented based on the combined data samples of the ATLAS and CMS experiments at the CERN LHC in the H →γγ and H → ZZ→ 4ℓ decay channels. The results are obtained from a simultaneous fit to the reconstructed invariant mass peaks in the two channels and for the two experiments. The measured masses from the individual channels and the two experiments are found to be consistent among themselves. The combined measured mass of the Higgs boson is m_H = 125.09±0.21 (stat.)±0.11 (syst.)GeV.
Search for the associated production of a Higgs boson with a single top quark in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. This paper presents the search for the production of a Higgs boson in association with a single top quark, using data collected in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The search exploits a variety of Higgs boson decay modes resulting in final states with photons, bottom quarks, and multiple charged leptons, including tau leptons, and employs a variety of multivariate techniques to maximize sensitivity to the signal.The analysis is optimized for the opposite sign of the Yukawa coupling to that in the standard model and corresponding to a large enhancement of the signal cross section. In the absence of an excess of candidate signal events over the background predictions, 95% confidence level observed (expected) upper limits on anomalous tHq production are set, ranging between 600 (450) fb and 1000 (700) fb depending on the assumed diphoton branching fraction of the Higgs boson. This is the first time that results on anomalous tHq production have been reported.
Measurement of the properties of a Higgs boson in the four-lepton final state. The properties of a Higgs boson candidate are measured in the H → ZZ → 4l decay channel, with l=e,μ, using data from pp collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 5.1 inverse femtobarns at center-of-mass energy of √(s)=7 TeV and 19.7 inverse femtobarns at √(s)=8 TeV, recorded with the CMS detector at the LHC. The new boson is observed as a narrow resonance with a local significance of 6.8 standard deviations, a measured mass of 125.6±0.4 (stat.) ±0.2 (syst.) GeV, and a total width less than 3.4 GeV at a 95% confidence level. The production cross section of the new boson times the branching fraction to four leptons is measured to be 0.93^+0.26_-0.23 (stat.)^+0.13_-0.09 (syst.) times that predicted by the standard model. Its spin-parity properties are found to be consistent with the expectations for the standard model Higgs boson. The hypotheses of a pseudoscalar and all tested spin-one boson hypotheses are excluded at a 99% confidence level or higher. All tested spin-two boson hypotheses are excluded at a 95% confidence level or higher.
Measurement of charged current triple gauge boson couplings using W pairs at LEP. Triple gauge boson couplings are measured from W-pair and single photon events recorded by the OPAL detector at LEP at center-of-mass energies between 183 - 209 GeV with a total integrated luminosity of 680 inverse picobarns. Only CP-conserving couplings are considered and SU(2)xU(1) relations between the WWZ and the WWgamma couolings are used, resulting in four independent couplings. Each coupling is determined in a separate fit, assuming the other couplings to take their Standard Model values. Fits are also done allowing some of the couplings to vary simultaneously. The results are compared with the Standard Model predictions.
Observation of ttH production. The observation of Higgs boson production in association with a top quark-antiquark pair is reported, based on a combined analysis of proton-proton collision data at center-of-mass energies of √(s)= 7, 8, and 13 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1, 19.7, and 35.9 fb^-1, respectively. The data were collected with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC. The results of statistically independent searches for Higgs bosons produced in conjunction with a top quark-antiquark pair and decaying to pairs of W bosons, Z bosons, photons, τ leptons, or bottom quark jets are combined to maximize sensitivity. An excess of events is observed, with a significance of 5.2 standard deviations, over the expectation from the background-only hypothesis. The corresponding expected significance from the standard model for a Higgs boson mass of 125.09 GeV is 4.2 standard deviations. The combined best fit signal strength normalized to the standard model prediction is 1.26 ^+0.31_-0.26.
Search for a Higgs boson in the decay channel H → ZZ^(*)→ qq̅l^-l^+ in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying into two Z bosons with subsequent decay into a final state containing two quark jets and two leptons, H → ZZ^(*)→ qq̅l^-l^+ is presented. Results are based on data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.6 inverse femtobarns of proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. In order to discriminate between signal and background events, kinematic and topological quantities, including the angular spin correlations of the decay products, are employed. Events are further classified according to the probability of the jets to originate from quarks of light or heavy flavor or from gluons. No evidence for the Higgs boson is found, and upper limits on its production cross section are determined for a Higgs boson of mass between 130 and 600 GeV.
Search for top-quark decays t → Hq with 36 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for flavour-changing neutral current decays of a top quark into an up-type quark (q=u, c) and the Standard Model Higgs boson, t→ Hq, is presented. The search is based on a dataset of pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. Two complementary analyses are performed that search for top-quark pair events in which one top quark decays into Wb and the other top quark decays into Hq, and target the H→ bb̅ and H→τ^+τ^- decay modes, respectively. The high multiplicity of b-quark jets, or the presence of hadronically decaying τ-leptons, are exploited in the two analyses respectively. Multivariate techniques are used to separate the signal from the background, which is dominated by top-quark pair production. No significant excess of events above the background expectation is found, and 95% CL upper limits on the t→ Hq branching ratios are derived. The combination of these searches with ATLAS searches in diphoton and multilepton final states yields observed (expected) 95% CL upper limits on the t→ Hc and t→ Hu branching ratios of 1.1 × 10^-3 (8.3 × 10^-4) and 1.2 × 10^-3 (8.3 × 10^-4), respectively. The corresponding combined observed (expected) upper limits on the |λ_tcH| and |λ_tuH| couplings are 0.064 (0.055) and 0.066 (0.055), respectively.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have searched for the neutral Higgs bosons which are predicted by the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). The data of the four collaborations are statistically combined and examined for their consistency with the background hypothesis and with a possible Higgs boson signal. The combined LEP data show no significant excess of events which would indicate the production of Higgs bosons. The search results are used to set upper bounds on the cross-sections of various Higgs-like event topologies. The results are interpreted within the MSSM in a number of benchmark models, including CP-conserving and CP-violating scenarios. These interpretations lead in all cases to large exclusions in the MSSM parameter space. Absolute limits are set on the parameter tanb and, in some scenarios, on the masses of neutral Higgs bosons.
A search for the dimuon decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson with the ATLAS detector. A search for the dimuon decay of the Standard Model (SM) Higgs boson is performed using data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector in Run2 pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider. The observed (expected) significance over the background-only hypothesis for a Higgs boson with a mass of 125.09 GeV is 2.0σ (1.7σ). The observed upper limit on the cross section times branching ratio for pp → H →μμ is 2.2 times the SM prediction at 95% confidence level, while the expected limit on a H →μμ signal assuming the absence (presence) of a SM signal is 1.1 (2.0). The best-fit value of the signal strength parameter, defined as the ratio of the observed signal yield to the one expected in the SM, is μ = 1.2 ± 0.6.
Limits on the Higgs boson lifetime and width from its decay to four charged leptons. Constraints on the lifetime and width of the Higgs boson are obtained from H→ZZ→ 4ℓ events using data recorded by the CMS experiment during the LHC run 1 with an integrated luminosity of 5.1 and 19.7 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 7 and 8 TeV, respectively. The measurement of the Higgs boson lifetime is derived from its flight distance in the CMS detector with an upper bound of τ_H lower than 1.9 × 10^-13 s at the 95% confidence level (CL), corresponding to a lower bound on the width of Γ_H larger than 3.5 × 10^-9 MeV. The measurement of the width is obtained from an off-shell production technique, generalized to include anomalous couplings of the Higgs boson to two electroweak bosons. From this measurement, a joint constraint is set on the Higgs boson width and a parameter f_Λ Q that expresses an anomalous coupling contribution as an on-shell cross-section fraction. The limit on the Higgs boson width is Γ_H lower than 46 MeV with f_Λ Q unconstrained and Γ_H lower than 26 MeV for f_Λ Q=0 at the 95% CL. The constraint f_Λ Q lower than 3.8 × 10^-3 at the 95% CL is obtained for the expected standard model Higgs boson width.
Search for charged Higgs bosons decaying into top and bottom quarks at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for charged Higgs bosons heavier than the top quark and decaying via H^+ → tb is presented. The data analysed corresponds to 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV and was recorded with the ATLAS detector at the LHC in 2015 and 2016. The production of a charged Higgs boson in association with a top quark and a bottom quark, pp → tb H^+, is explored in the mass range from m_H^+ = 200 to 2000 GeV using multi-jet final states with one or two electrons or muons. Events are categorised according to the multiplicity of jets and how likely these are to have originated from hadronisation of a bottom quark. Multivariate techniques are used to discriminate between signal and background events. No significant excess above the background-only hypothesis is observed and exclusion limits are derived for the production cross-section times branching fraction of a charged Higgs boson as a function of its mass, which range from 2.9 pb at m_H^+ = 200 GeV to 0.070 pb at m_H^+ = 2000 GeV. The results are interpreted in two benchmark scenarios of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model.
Search for  heavy resonances decaying into a pair of Z bosons in the ℓ^+ℓ^-ℓ'^+ℓ'^- and  ℓ^+ℓ^-νν̅ final states using 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A  search for heavy resonances decaying into a pair of Z bosons leading to ℓ^+ℓ^-ℓ'^+ℓ'^- and  ℓ^+ℓ^-νν̅ final states, where ℓ stands for either an electron or a muon, is presented. The search uses proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected from 2015 to 2018 that corresponds to the full integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 recorded by the ATLAS detector during Run 2 of the Large Hadron Collider. Different mass ranges spanning 200 GeV to 2000 GeV for the hypothetical resonances are considered, depending on the final state and model. In the absence of a significant observed excess, the results are interpreted as upper limits on the production cross section of a spin-0 or spin-2 resonance. The upper limits for the spin-0 resonance are translated to exclusion contours in the context of Type-I and Type-II two-Higgs-doublet models, and the limits for the spin-2 resonance are used to constrain the Randall-Sundrum model with an extra dimension giving rise to spin-2 graviton excitations.
Searches for lepton-flavour-violating decays of the Higgs boson in √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. This Letter presents direct searches for lepton flavour violation in Higgs boson decays, H→ eτ and H→μτ, performed with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The searches are based on a data sample of proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. No significant excess is observed above the expected background from Standard Model processes. The observed (median expected) 95% confidence-level upper limits are 0.47% (0.34^+0.13_-0.10%) and 0.28% (0.37^+0.14_-0.10%) for H→ eτ and H→μτ, respectively.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at energies up to √(s) = 209 GeV. A search for charged Higgs bosons produced in pairs is performed with data collected at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 189 to 209 GeV by ALEPH at LEP, corresponding to a total luminosity of 629 invpb. The three final states taunutaunu, taunucs and cscs are considered. No evidence for a signal is found and lower limits are set on the mass M_H+ as a function of the branching fraction B(H to taunu). In the framework of a two-Higgs-doublet model, and assuming B(H+ to taunu + B(H+ to cs) = 1 charged Higgs bosons with masses below 79.3 Gev/c2 are excluded at 95% confidence level independently of the branching ratios.
A search for resonances decaying into a Higgs boson and a new particle X in the XH → qqbb final state with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy resonances decaying into a Higgs boson (H) and a new particle (X) is reported, utilizing 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV collected during 2015 and 2016 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The particle X is assumed to decay to a pair of light quarks, and the fully hadronic final state XH → qq̅'bb̅ is analysed. The search considers the regime of high XH resonance masses, where the X and H bosons are both highly Lorentz-boosted and are each reconstructed using a single jet with large radius parameter. A two-dimensional phase space of XH mass versus X mass is scanned for evidence of a signal, over a range of XH resonance mass values between 1 TeV and 4 TeV, and for X particles with masses from 50 GeV to 1000 GeV. All search results are consistent with the expectations for the background due to Standard Model processes, and 95% CL upper limits are set, as a function of XH and X masses, on the production cross-section of the XH→ qq̅'bb̅ resonance.
Search for a low-mass pseudoscalar Higgs boson produced in association with a b b̅ pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search is reported for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson decaying to a pair of τ leptons, produced in association with a b b̅ pair, in the context of two-Higgs-doublet models. The results are based on pp collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. Pseudoscalar boson masses between 25 and 80 GeV are probed. No evidence for a pseudoscalar boson is found and upper limits are set on the production cross section times branching fraction to τ pairs between 7 and 39 pb at the 95% confidence level. This search excludes a pseudoscalar Higgs boson with mass below 80 GeV, in Type II two-Higgs-doublet models with a negative coupling of standard model-like Higgs boson to down-type fermions.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with top quarks and decaying into a bb̅ pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair, tt̅H, is presented. The analysis uses 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV, collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in 2015 and 2016. The search targets the H → bb̅ decay mode. The selected events contain either one or two electrons or muons from the top-quark decays, and are then categorized according to the number of jets and how likely these are to contain b-hadrons. Multivariate techniques are used to discriminate between signal and background events, the latter being dominated by tt̅ + jets production. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, the ratio of the measured tt̅H signal cross-section to the Standard Model expectation is found to be μ = 0.84^+0.64_-0.61. A value of μ greater than 2.0 is excluded at 95% confidence level while the expected upper limit is μ < 1.2 in the absence of a tt̅H signal.
Search for the neutral Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for neutral Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM) is reported. The analysis is based on a sample of proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The data were recorded in 2011 and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb^-1 to 4.8 fb^-1. Higgs boson decays into oppositely-charged muon or tau lepton pairs are considered for final states requiring either the presence or absence of b-jets. No statistically significant excess over the expected background is observed and exclusion limits at the 95% confidence level are derived. The exclusion limits are for the production cross-section of a generic neutral Higgs boson, ϕ, as a function of the Higgs boson mass and for h/H/A production in the MSSM as a function of the parameters m_A and tanβ in the m_h^max scenario for m_A in the range of 90 GeV to 500 GeV.
Search for invisible decays of a Higgs boson produced through vector boson fusion in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for invisible decays of a Higgs boson is performed using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search targets the production of a Higgs boson via vector boson fusion. The data are found to be in agreement with the background contributions from standard model processes. An observed (expected) upper limit of 0.33 (0.25), at 95% confidence level, is placed on the branching fraction of the standard model Higgs boson decay to invisible particles. The result from this analysis is combined with the ones from other searches for invisible decays of the Higgs boson performed using the 2016 data set. An observed (expected) upper limit of 0.26 (0.20), at 95% confidence level, is placed on the branching fraction of invisible decays of the Higgs boson, assuming standard model production rates. The combined expected result represents the most sensitive search for invisible decays of the Higgs boson to date. The result is also interpreted in the context of Higgs-portal dark matter models, in which upper bounds are placed on the spin-independent dark-matter-nucleon scattering cross section.
Search for a Standard Model Higgs boson in the H → ZZ → l^+l^-νν̅ decay channel using 4.7 fb^-1 of √(s) = 7 TeV data with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy Standard Model Higgs boson decaying via H → ZZ → l^+l^-νν̅, where l represents electrons or muons, is presented. It is based on proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV, collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC during 2011 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb^-1. The data agree with the expected Standard Model backgrounds. Upper limits on the Higgs boson production cross section are derived for Higgs boson masses between 200 GeV and 600 GeV and the production of a Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass in the range 319 - 558 GeV is excluded at the 95% confidence level.
Standard Model Higgs Boson with the L3 Experiment at LEP. Final results of the search for the Standard Model Higgs boson are presented for the data collected by the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies up to about 209 GeV. These data are compared with the expectations of Standard Model processes for Higgs boson masses up to 120 GeV. A lower limit on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson of 112.0 GeV is set at the 95% confidence level. The most significant high mass candidate is a Hnn bar event. It has a reconstructed Higgs mass of 115 GeV and it was recorded at Square root of s =206.4 GeV.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced by vector-boson fusion in 8 TeV pp collisions and decaying to bottom quarks with the ATLAS detector. A search with the ATLAS detector is presented for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced by vector-boson fusion and decaying to a pair of bottom quarks, using 20.2 fb^-1 of LHC proton–proton collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV. The signal is searched for as a resonance in the invariant mass distribution of a pair of jets containing  b-hadrons in vector-boson-fusion candidate events. The yield is measured to be -0.8 ± 2.3 times the Standard Model cross-section for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV. The upper limit on the cross-section times the branching ratio is found to be 4.4 times the Standard Model cross-section at the 95% confidence level, consistent with the expected limit value of 5.4 (5.7) in the background-only (Standard Model production) hypothesis.
Search for additional heavy neutral Higgs and gauge bosons in the ditau final state produced in 36 fb^−1 of pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy neutral Higgs bosons and Z^' bosons is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 from proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC during 2015 and 2016. The heavy resonance is assumed to decay to τ^+τ^- with at least one tau lepton decaying to final states with hadrons and a neutrino. The search is performed in the mass range of 0.2-2.25 TeV for Higgs bosons and 0.2-4.0 TeV for Z^' bosons. The data are in good agreement with the background predicted by the Standard Model. The results are interpreted in benchmark scenarios. In the context of the hMSSM scenario, the data exclude tanβ > 1.0 for m_A = 0.25 TeV and tanβ > 42 for m_A = 1.5 TeV at the 95% confidence level. For the Sequential Standard Model, Z^'_SSM with m_Z^' < 2.42 TeV is excluded at 95% confidence level, while Z^'_NU with m_Z^' < 2.25 TeV is excluded for the non-universal G(221) model that exhibits enhanced couplings to third-generation fermions.
Combined search for the Standard Model Higgs boson using up to 4.9 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. A combined search for the Standard Model Higgs boson with the ATLAS experiment at the LHC using datasets corresponding to integrated luminosities from 1.04 fb-1 to 4.9 fb-1 of pp collisions collected at sqrt(s) = 7 TeV is presented. The Higgs boson mass ranges 112.9-115.5 GeV, 131-238 GeV and 251-466 GeV are excluded at the 95% confidence level (CL), while the range 124-519 GeV is expected to be excluded in the absence of a signal. An excess of events is observed around mH   126 GeV with a local significance of 3.5 standard deviations (sigma). The local significance of H -> gamma gamma, H -> ZZ(*) -> lll'l' and H -> WW(*) -> lvl'v, the three most sensitive channels in this mass range, are 2.8 sigma, 2.1 sigma and 1.4 sigma, respectively. The global probability for the background to produce such a fluctuation anywhere in the explored Higgs boson mass range 110-600 GeV is estimated to be  1.4% or, equivalently 2.2 sigma.
Summary of the ATLAS experiment's sensitivity to supersymmetry after LHC Run 1 - interpreted in the phenomenological MSSM. A summary of the constraints from the ATLAS experiment on R-parity conserving supersymmetry is presented. Results from 22 separate ATLAS searches are considered, each based on analysis of up to 20.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at the centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider.  The results are interpreted in the context of the 19-parameter phenomenological minimal supersymmetric standard model, in which the lightest supersymmetric particle is a neutralino, taking into account constraints from previous precision electroweak and flavour measurements as well as from dark matter related measurements.  The results are presented in terms of constraints on supersymmetric particle masses and are compared to limits from simplified models. The impact of ATLAS searches on parameters such as the dark matter relic density, the couplings of the observed Higgs boson, and the degree of electroweak fine-tuning is also shown.  Spectra for surviving supersymmetry model points with low fine-tunings are presented.
Observation of a new boson at a mass of 125 GeV with the CMS experiment at the LHC. Results are presented from searches for the standard model Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 and 8 TeV in the CMS experiment at the LHC, using data samples corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1 inverse femtobarns at 7 TeV and 5.3 inverse femtobarns at 8 TeV. The search is performed in five decay modes: γγ, ZZ, WW, τ^+ τ^-, and bb̅. An excess of events is observed above the expected background, a local significance of 5.0 standard deviations, at a mass near 125 GeV, signalling the production of a new particle. The expected significance for a standard model Higgs boson of that mass is 5.8 standard deviations. The excess is most significant in the two decay modes with the best mass resolution, γγ and ZZ; a fit to these signals gives a mass of 125.3 ± 0.4 (stat.) ± 0.5 (syst.) GeV. The decay to two photons indicates that the new particle is a boson with spin different from one.
Search for anomalous production of events with three or more leptons in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV. A search for physics beyond the standard model in events with at least three leptons is presented. The data sample, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 inverse femtobarns of proton-proton collisions with center-of-mass energy √(s) = 8 TeV, was collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC during 2012. The data are divided into exclusive categories based on the number of leptons and their flavor, the presence or absence of an opposite-sign, same-flavor lepton pair (OSSF), the invariant mass of the OSSF pair, the presence or absence of a tagged bottom-quark jet, the number of identified hadronically decaying tau leptons, and the magnitude of the missing transverse energy and of the scalar sum of jet transverse momenta. The numbers of observed events are found to be consistent with the expected numbers from standard model processes, and limits are placed on new-physics scenarios that yield multilepton final states. In particular, scenarios that predict Higgs boson production in the context of supersymmetric decay chains are examined. We also place a 95% confidence level upper limit of 1.3% on the branching fraction for the decay of a top quark to a charm quark and a Higgs boson (t → cH), which translates to a bound on the left- and right-handed top-charm flavor-violating Higgs Yukawa couplings, λ^H_tc and λ^H_ct, respectively, of √(abs(λ^H_tc)^2 + abs(λ^H_ct)^2)) 0.21.
Measurement of Higgs boson production in the diphoton decay channel in pp collisions at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A measurement of the production processes of the recently discovered Higgs boson is performed in the two-photon final state using 5.4 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions data at √(s)=7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 at √(s)=8 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The number of observed Higgs boson decays to diphotons divided by the corresponding Standard Model prediction, called the signal strength, is found to be μ = 1.17 ± 0.27 at the value of the Higgs boson mass measured by ATLAS, m_H = 125.4 GeV. The analysis is optimized to measure the signal strengths for individual Higgs boson production processes at this value of m_H. They are found to be μ_ggF = 1.32 ± 0.38, μ_VBF = 0.8 ± 0.7, μ_WH = 1.0 ± 1.6, μ_ZH = 0.1 ^+3.7_-0.1, μ_tt̅H = 1.6 ^+2.7_-1.8, for Higgs boson production through gluon fusion, vector-boson fusion, and in association with a W or Z boson or a top-quark pair, respectively. Compared with the previously published ATLAS analysis, the results reported here also benefit from a new energy calibration procedure for photons and the subsequent reduction of the systematic uncertainty on the diphoton mass resolution. No significant deviations from the predictions of the Standard Model are found.
Search for heavy neutral Higgs bosons produced in association with b-quarks and decaying to b-quarks at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy neutral Higgs bosons produced in association with one or two b-quarks and decaying to b-quark pairs is presented using 27.8 fb^-1 of √(s)=13 TeV proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider during 2015 and 2016. No evidence of a signal is found. Upper limits on the heavy neutral Higgs boson production cross-section times its branching ratio to bb̅ are set, ranging from 4.0 to 0.6 pb at 95% confidence level over a Higgs boson mass range of 450 to 1400 GeV. Results are interpreted within the two-Higgs-doublet model and the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons in Z^0 decays using the OPAL detector at LEP.
Limits on a light Higgs boson in e+e- collisions at LEP.
Search for resonant and nonresonant Higgs boson pair production in the bblnulnu final state in proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s) = 13 TeV. Searches for resonant and nonresonant pair-produced Higgs bosons (HH) decaying respectively into ℓνℓν, through either W or Z bosons, and b b̅ are presented. The analyses are based on a sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Data and predictions from the standard model are in agreement within uncertainties. For the standard model HH hypothesis, the data exclude at 95% confidence level a product of the production cross section and branching fraction larger than 72 fb, corresponding to 79 times the prediction, consistent with expectations. Constraints are placed on different scenarios considering anomalous couplings, which could affect the rate and kinematics of HH production. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the production cross section of narrow-width spin-0 and spin-2 particles decaying to Higgs boson pairs, the latter produced with minimal gravity-like coupling.
Observation of a new particle in the search for the Standard Model Higgs boson with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions with the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. The datasets used correspond to integrated luminosities of approximately 4.8 fb^-1 collected at √(s) = 7 TeV in 2011 and 5.8 fb^-1 at √(s) = 8 TeV in 2012. Individual searches in the channels H → ZZ^(*)→ llll, H →γγ and H → WW^(*)→ eνμν in the 8 TeV data are combined with previously published results of searches for H → ZZ^(*), WW^(*), bb̅ and τ^+ τ^- in the 7 TeV data and results from improved analyses of the H → ZZ^(*)→ llll and H →γγ channels in the 7 TeV data. Clear evidence for the production of a neutral boson with a measured mass of 126.0 ± 0.4(stat) ± 0.4(sys) GeV is presented. This observation, which has a significance of 5.9 standard deviations, corresponding to a background fluctuation probability of 1.7x10^-9, is compatible with the production and decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson.
Search for the associated production of the Higgs boson and a vector boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV via Higgs boson decays to τ leptons. A search for the standard model Higgs boson, decaying to a pair of τ leptons and produced in association with a W or a Z boson is performed. A data sample of proton-proton collisions collected at √(s) = 13 TeV by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC is used, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The signal strength is measured relative to the expectation for the standard model Higgs boson, yielding μ = 2.5^+1.4 _-1.3. These results are combined with earlier CMS measurements targeting Higgs boson decays to a pair of τ leptons, performed with the same data set in the gluon fusion and vector boson fusion production modes. The combined signal strength is μ = 1.24^+0.29 _-0.27 (1.00^+0.24 _-0.23 expected), and the observed significance is 5.5 standard deviations (4.8 expected) for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV.
Searches for a heavy scalar boson H decaying to a pair of 125 GeV Higgs bosons hh or for a heavy pseudoscalar boson A decaying to Zh, in the final states with h→ττ. A search for a heavy scalar boson H decaying into a pair of lighter standard-model-like 125 GeV Higgs bosons h and a search for a heavy pseudoscalar boson A decaying into a Z and an h boson are presented. The searches are performed on a dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 of pp collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, collected by CMS in 2012. A final state consisting of two τ leptons and two b jets is used to search for the H → h h decay. A final state consisting of two τ leptons from the h boson decay, and two additional leptons from the Z boson decay, is used to search for the decay A → Z h. The results are interpreted in the context of both the minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model and two-Higgs-doublet models. No excess is found above the standard model expectation and upper limits are set on the heavy boson production cross sections in the mass ranges 260 < m_H < 350 GeV and 220 < m_A < 350 GeV.
Search for Higgs bosons decaying to WW in e^+e^- collisions at LEP. A search for Higgs bosons produced in association with a fermion pair, and decaying to WW, is performed with the data collected by the ALEPH detector at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 191 to 209 GeV. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 453.2 pb^-1. Thirteen exclusive selections are developed according to the different final state topologies. No statistically significant evidence for a Higgs boson decaying into a WW pair has been found. An upper limit is derived, as a function of the Higgs boson mass, on the product of the e+e- ->Hff cross section and the H->WW branching ratio. The data on the search for H->WW are combined with previously published ALEPH results on the search for H->gamma gamma, to significantly extend the limits on the mass of a fermiophobic Higgs boson.
Search for doubly charged Higgs boson production in multi-lepton final states with the ATLAS detector using proton–proton collisions at √(s)=13 TeV. A search for doubly charged Higgs bosons with pairs of prompt, isolated, highly energetic leptons with the same electric charge is presented. The search uses a proton-proton collision data sample at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV corresponding to 36.1 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity recorded in 2015 and 2016 by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. This analysis focuses on the decays H^±±→ e^±e^±, H^±±→ e^±μ^± and H^±±→μ^±μ^±, fitting the dilepton mass spectra in several exclusive signal regions. No significant evidence of a signal is observed and corresponding limits on the production cross-section are derived at 95% confidence level. The observed lower limit on the mass of a doubly charged Higgs boson only coupling to left-handed leptons (e,μ) varies from 770 GeV to 870 GeV (850 GeV expected) for B(H^±±→ℓ^±ℓ^±) = 100% and both the expected and observed mass limits are above 450 GeV for B(H^±±→ℓ^±ℓ^±) = 10% and any combination of partial branching ratios.
// ---  ATLAS + CMS + DELPHI + L3 + OPAL + ALEPH ----- //
Search for a standard model-like Higgs boson in the mass range between 70 and 110 GeV in the diphoton final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 8 and 13 TeV. The results of a search for a standard model-like Higgs boson in the mass range between 70 and 110 GeV decaying into two photons are presented. The analysis uses the data set collected with the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions during the 2012 and 2016 LHC running periods. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 (35.9) fb^-1 at √(s) =8 (13) TeV. The expected and observed 95% confidence level upper limits on the product of the cross section and branching fraction into two photons are presented. The observed upper limit for the 2012 (2016) data set ranges from 129 (161) fb to 31 (26) fb. The statistical combination of the results from the analyses of the two data sets in the common mass range between 80 and 110 GeV yields an upper limit on the product of the cross section and branching fraction, normalized to that for a standard model-like Higgs boson, ranging from 0.7 to 0.2, with two notable exceptions: one in the region around the Z boson peak, where the limit rises to 1.1, which may be due to the presence of Drell-Yan dielectron production where electrons could be misidentified as isolated photons, and a second due to an observed excess with respect to the standard model prediction, which is maximal for a mass hypothesis of 95.3 GeV with a local (global) significance of 2.8 (1.3) standard deviations.
Evidence for the spin-0 nature of the Higgs boson using ATLAS data. Studies of the spin and parity quantum numbers of the Higgs boson are presented, based on proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. The Standard Model spin-parity J^P = 0^+ hypothesis is compared with alternative hypotheses using the Higgs boson decays H →γγ, H → ZZ^* → 4 leptons and H → WW^* → lν lν, as well as the combination of these channels. The analysed dataset corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 20.7 fb^-1 collected at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV. For the H → ZZ^* → 4-lepton decay mode the dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.6 fb^-1 collected at √(s) = 7 TeV is added. The data are compatible with the Standard Model J^P = 0^+ quantum numbers for the Higgs boson, whereas all alternative hypotheses studied in this letter, namely some specific J^P = 0^-, 1^+, 1^-, 2^+ models, are excluded at confidence levels above 97.8%. This exclusion holds independently of the assumptions on the coupling strengths to the Standard Model particles and in the case of the J^P = 2^+ model, of the relative fractions of gluon-fusion and quark-antiquark production of the spin-2 particle. The data thus provide evidence for the spin-0 nature of the Higgs boson, with positive parity being strongly preferred.
Combined measurements of Higgs boson couplings in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. Combined measurements of the production and decay rates of the Higgs boson, as well as its couplings to vector bosons and fermions, are presented. The analysis uses the LHC proton-proton collision data set recorded with the CMS detector in 2016 at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 . The combination is based on analyses targeting the five main Higgs boson production mechanisms (gluon fusion, vector boson fusion, and associated production with a W or Z boson, or a top quark-antiquark pair) and the following decay modes: H→γγ, ZZ, WW, ττ, bb, and μμ. Searches for invisible Higgs boson decays are also considered. The best-fit ratio of the signal yield to the standard model expectation is measured to be μ= 1.17 ± 0.10, assuming a Higgs boson mass of 125.09 GeV. Additional results are given for parametrizations with varying assumptions on the scaling behavior of the different production and decay modes, including generic ones based on ratios of cross sections and branching fractions or coupling modifiers. The results are compatible with the standard model predictions in all parametrizations considered. In addition, constraints are placed on various two Higgs doublet models.
Modelling Z→ττ processes in ATLAS with τ-embedded Z→μμ data. This paper describes the concept, technical realisation and validation of a largely data-driven method to model events with Z→ττ decays. In Z→μμ events selected from proton-proton collision data recorded at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in 2012, the Z decay muons are replaced by τ leptons from simulated Z→ττ decays at the level of reconstructed tracks and calorimeter cells. The τ lepton kinematics are derived from the kinematics of the original muons. Thus, only the well-understood decays of the Z boson and τ leptons as well as the detector response to the τ decay products are obtained from simulation. All other aspects of the event, such as the Z boson and jet kinematics as well as effects from multiple interactions, are given by the actual data. This so-called τ-embedding method is particularly relevant for Higgs boson searches and analyses in ττ final states, where Z→ττ decays constitute a large irreducible background that cannot be obtained directly from data control samples.
A search for the dimuon decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson with the ATLAS detector. A search for the dimuon decay of the Standard Model (SM) Higgs boson is performed using data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector in Run2 pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider. The observed (expected) significance over the background-only hypothesis for a Higgs boson with a mass of 125.09 GeV is 2.0σ (1.7σ). The observed upper limit on the cross section times branching ratio for pp → H →μμ is 2.2 times the SM prediction at 95% confidence level, while the expected limit on a H →μμ signal assuming the absence (presence) of a SM signal is 1.1 (2.0). The best-fit value of the signal strength parameter, defined as the ratio of the observed signal yield to the one expected in the SM, is μ = 1.2 ± 0.6.
Search for charginos and neutralinos in e^+ e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies near 183 GeV and constraints on the MSSM parameter space. Searches for charginos and neutralinos are performed with the data collected by the ALEPH detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies near 183 GeV. In these searches, it is assumed that R-parity is conserved and that the lightest neutralino is the LSP. No evidence of a signal is observed in the 57 pb-1 accumulated, which excludes chargino and associated neutralino production up to the kinematic limit over large regions of the MSSM parameter space. Under the assumptions of common gaugino and common sfermion masses at the unification scale, the interplay between the chargino, neutralino and slepton exclusions allows a lower limit of 27 GeV/c2 to be set on the mass of the lightest neutralino. Tighter constraints on the MSSM parameter space are obtained using in addition exclusions in the Higgs sector. Finally, the results are interpreted within the framework of minimal supergravity.
Search for new phenomena in events with three charged leptons at /sqrts = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A generic search for anomalous production of events with at least three charged leptons is presented. The search uses a pp-collision data sample at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV corresponding to 4.6 inverse femtobarns of integrated luminosity collected in 2011 by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. Events are required to contain at least two electrons or muons, while the third lepton may either be an additional electron or muon, or a hadronically decaying tau lepton. Events are categorized by the presence or absence of a reconstructed tau-lepton or Z-boson candidate decaying to leptons. No significant excess above backgrounds expected from Standard Model processes is observed. Results are presented as upper limits on event yields from non-Standard-Model processes producing at least three prompt, isolated leptons, given as functions of lower bounds on several kinematic variables. Fiducial efficiencies for model testing are also provided. The use of the results is illustrated by setting upper limits on the production of doubly-charged Higgs bosons decaying to same-sign lepton pairs.
Search for light pseudoscalar boson pairs produced from decays of the 125 GeV Higgs boson in final states with two muons and two nearby tracks in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for pairs of light pseudoscalar bosons, in the mass range from 4 to 15 GeV, produced from decays of the 125 GeV Higgs boson. The decay modes considered are final states that arise when one of the pseudoscalars decays to a pair of tau leptons, and the other one either into a pair of tau leptons or muons. The search is based on proton-proton collisions collected by the CMS experiment in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV that correspond to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The 2μ2τ and 4τ channels are used in combination to constrain the product of the Higgs boson production cross section and the branching fraction into 4τ final state, σℬ, exploiting the linear dependence of the fermionic coupling strength of pseudoscalar bosons on the fermion mass. No significant excess is observed beyond the expectation from the standard model. The observed and expected upper limits at 95% confidence level on σℬ, relative to the standard model Higgs boson production cross section, are set respectively between 0.022 and 0.23 and between 0.027 and 0.19 in the mass range probed by the analysis.
Search for long-lived particles that decay into final states containing two electrons or two muons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search is performed for long-lived particles that decay into final states that include a pair of electrons or a pair of muons. The experimental signature is a distinctive topology consisting of a pair of charge dleptons originating from a displaced secondary vertex. Events corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.6 (20.5) fb^-1 in the electron (muon) channel were collected with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. No significant excess is observed above standard model expectations. Upper limits on the product of the cross section and branching fraction of such a signal are presented as a function of the long-lived particle's mean proper decay length. The limits are presented in an approximately model-independent way, allowing them to be applied to a wide class of models yielding the above topology. Over much of the investigated parameter space, the limits obtained are the most stringent to date. In the specific case of a model in which a Higgs boson in the mass range 125-1000 GeV/c^2 decays into a pair of long-lived neutral bosons in the mass range 20-350 GeV/c^2, each of which can then decay to dileptons, the upper limits obtained are typically in the range 0.2-10 fb for mean proper decay lengths of the long-lived particles in the range 0.01-100 cm. In the case of the lowest Higgs mass considered (125 GeV/c^2), the limits are in the range 2-50 fb. These limits are sensitive to Higgs boson branching fractions as low as 10^-4.
Searches for Higgs bosons.
Search for new neutral Higgs bosons through the H→ Z A→ℓ^+ℓ^-bb̅ process in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. This paper reports on a search for an extended scalar sector of the standard model, where a new CP-even (odd) boson decays to a Z boson and a lighter CP-odd (even) boson, and the latter further decays to a b quark pair. The Z boson is reconstructed via its decays to electron or muon pairs. The analysed data were recorded in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV, collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC during 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Data and predictions from the standard model are in agreement within the uncertainties. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the production cross section times branching fraction, with masses of the new bosons up to 1000 GeV. The results are interpreted in the context of the two-Higgs-doublet model.
// ---  ATLAS + CMS + DELPHI + L3 + OPAL + ALEPH ----- //
Search for the dimuon decay of the Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the dimuon decay of the Higgs boson was performed using data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess is observed above the expected background. The observed (expected) upper limit on the cross-section times branching ratio is 3.0 (3.1) times the Standard Model prediction at the 95% confidence level for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV. When combined with the pp collision data at √(s)=7 TeV and √(s)=8 TeV, the observed (expected) upper limit is 2.8 (2.9) times the Standard Model prediction.
Searches for electroweak neutralino and chargino production in channels with Higgs, Z, and W bosons in pp collisions at 8 TeV. Searches for supersymmetry (SUSY) are presented based on the electroweak pair production of neutralinos and charginos, leading to decay channels with Higgs, Z, and W bosons and undetected lightest SUSY particles (LSPs). The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of about 19.5 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected in 2012 with the CMS detector at the LHC. The main emphasis is neutralino pair production in which each neutralino decays either to a Higgs boson (h) and an LSP or to a Z boson and an LSP, leading to hh, hZ, and ZZ states states with missing transverse energy E_ T^ miss. A second aspect is chargino-neutralino pair production, leading to hW states with E_ T^ miss. The decays of a Higgs boson to a bottom-quark pair, to a photon pair, and to final states with leptons are considered in conjunction with hadronic and leptonic decay modes of the Z and W bosons. No evidence is found for supersymmetric particles, and 95% confidence level upper limits are evaluated for the respective pair production cross sections and for neutralino and chargino mass values.
Electroweak Measurements in Electron-Positron Collisions at W-Boson-Pair Energies at LEP. Electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the electron-positron collider LEP at CERN from 1995 to 2000 are reported. The combined data set considered in this report corresponds to a total luminosity of about 3 fb^-1 collected by the four LEP experiments ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 130 GeV to 209 GeV. Combining the published results of the four LEP experiments, the measurements include total and differential cross-sections in photon-pair, fermion-pair and four-fermion production, the latter resulting from both double-resonant WW and ZZ production as well as singly resonant production. Total and differential cross-sections are measured precisely, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model at centre-of-mass energies never explored before in electron-positron collisions. Final-state interaction effects in four-fermion production, such as those arising from colour reconnection and Bose-Einstein correlations between the two W decay systems arising in WW production, are searched for and upper limits on the strength of possible effects are obtained. The data are used to determine fundamental properties of the W boson and the electroweak theory. Among others, the mass and width of the W boson, M_W and Γ_W, the branching fraction of W decays to hadrons, B(W→had), and the trilinear gauge-boson self-couplings g^Z_1, κ_γ and λ_γ are determined to be: m_W = 80.376 ± 0.033 GeV Γ_W = 2.195 ± 0.083 GeV B(W →had) = 67.41 ± 0.27% g^Z_1 = 0.984 ^+0.018_-0.020 κ_γ = 0.982 ± 0.042 λ_γ = -0.022 ± 0.019
Search for charged Higgs bosons decaying into a top and a bottom quark in the all-jet final state of pp collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for charged Higgs bosons (H^±) decaying into a top and a bottom quark in the all-jet final states is presented. The analysis uses LHC proton-proton collision data recorded with the CMS detector in 2016 at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. No significant excess is observed above the expected background. Model-independent upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the product of the H^± production cross section and branching fraction in two scenarios. For production in association with a top quark, limits of 21.3 to 0.007 pb are obtained for H^± masses in the range of 0.2 to 3 TeV. Combining this with data from a search in leptonic final states results in improved limits of 9.25 to 0.005 pb. The complementary s-channel production of an H^± is investigated in the mass range of 0.8 to 3 TeV and the corresponding upper limits are 4.5 to 0.023 pb. These results are interpreted using different minimal supersymmetric extensions of the standard model.
Search for dijet resonances in events with an isolated charged lepton  using √(s) = 13 TeV proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS detector. A search for dijet resonances in events with at least one isolated charged lepton is performed using 139 fb^-1 of √(s)=13 TeV proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The dijet invariant-mass (m_jj) distribution constructed from events with at least one isolated electron or muon is searched in the region 0.22 < m_jj < 6.3 TeV for excesses above a smoothly falling background from Standard Model processes. Triggering based on the presence of a lepton in the event reduces limitations imposed by minimum transverse momentum thresholds for triggering on jets. This approach allows smaller dijet invariant masses to be probed than in inclusive dijet searches, targeting a variety of new-physics models, for example ones in which a new state is produced in association with a leptonically decaying W or Z boson. No statistically significant deviation from the Standard Model background hypothesis is found. Limits on contributions from generic Gaussian signals with widths ranging from that determined by the detector resolution up to 15% of the resonance mass are obtained for dijet invariant masses ranging from 0.25 TeV to 6 TeV. Limits are set also in the context of several scenarios beyond the Standard Model, such as the Sequential Standard Model, a technicolor model, a charged Higgs boson model and a simplified Dark Matter model.
Search for Higgs Bosons in e^+ e^- Collisions at 183 GeV. The data collected by the OPAL experiment at sqrts=183 GeV were used to search for Higgs bosons which are predicted by the Standard Model and various extensions, such as general models with two Higgs field doublets and the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of approximately 54pb-1. None of the searches for neutral and charged Higgs bosons have revealed an excess of events beyond the expected background. This negative outcome, in combination with similar results from searches at lower energies, leads to new limits for the Higgs boson masses and other model parameters. In particular, the 95% confidence level lower limit for the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson is 88.3 GeV. Charged Higgs bosons can be excluded for masses up to 59.5 GeV. In the MSSM, mh > 70.5 GeV and mA > 72.0 GeV are obtained for tanbeta>1, no and maximal scalar top mixing and soft SUSY-breaking masses of 1 TeV. The range 0.8 < tanb < 1.9 is excluded for minimal scalar top mixing and mtop < 175 GeV. More general scans of the MSSM parameter space are also considered.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with a vector boson and decaying into a tau pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with a vector boson with the decay H→ττ is presented. The data correspond to 20.3 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity from proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC during 2012. The data agree with the background expectation, and 95% confidence-level upper limits are placed on the cross section of this process. The observed (expected) limit, expressed in terms of the signal strength μ = σ/σ_SM for m_H = 125 GeV, is μ < 5.6 (3.7). The measured value of the signal strength is μ = 2.3±1.6.
Search for the neutral Higgs bosons of the Standard Model and the MSSM in e^+e^- collisions at √(s) = 189 GeV. Neutral Higgs bosons of the Standard Model and of the aresearched for in the data collected at a centre-of-mass energy of by the experiment at , with an integrated luminosity of . No evidence for a signal is found.A lower limit of at 95% confidence level is set on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson.In the , for ≥ 0.7 and for benchmark parameter choices, lower limits of and 82.6 are derived for the masses of the neutral Higgs bosons and , respectively.An update of the general parameter scan is alsopresented.
Search for the Decay of the Higgs Boson to Charm Quarks with the ATLAS Experiment. A direct search for the Standard Model Higgs boson decaying to a pair of charm quarks is presented. Associated production of the Higgs and Z bosons, in the decay mode ZH→ℓ^+ ℓ^- c c̅ is studied. A dataset with an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC is used. The H→ cc̅ signature is identified using charm-tagging algorithms. The observed (expected) upper limit on σ(pp → ZH) ×ℬ(H → cc̅) is 2.7 (3.9^+2.1_-1.1) pb at the 95% confidence level for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, while the Standard Model value is 26 fb.
Search for vector-like quarks in events with two oppositely charged leptons and jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for the pair production of heavy vector-like partners T and B of the top and bottom quarks has been performed by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC using proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. The data sample was collected in 2016 and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Final states studied for TT production include those where one of the T quarks decays via T → tZ and the other via T → bW, tZ, or tH, where H is a Higgs boson. For the BB case, final states include those where one of the B quarks decays via B → bZ and the other B → tW, bZ, or bH. Events with two oppositely charged electrons or muons, consistent with coming from the decay of a Z boson, and jets are investigated. The number of observed events is consistent with standard model background estimations. Lower limits at 95% confidence level are placed on the masses of the T and B quarks for a range of branching fractions. Assuming 100% branching fractions for T → tZ, and B → bZ, T and B quark mass values below 1280 and 1130 GeV, respectively, are excluded.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson at the LEP2 collider near √(s) = 183 GeV. During 1997 the ALEPH experiment at LEP gathered 57 pb of data at centre-of-mass energies near 183 GeV. These data are used to look for possible signals from the production of the Standard Model Higgs boson in the reaction ee –> HZ. No evidence of a signal is found in the data; seven events are selected, in agreement with the expectation of 7.2 events from background processes. This observation results in an improved lower limit on the mass of the Higgs boson: mH > 87.9 GeV/c2 at 95% confidence level.Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with top quarks and decaying into bb̅ in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with a pair of top quarks, tt̅H, is presented. The analysis uses 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV, collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider during 2012. The search is designed for the H to bb̅ decay mode and uses events containing one or two electrons or muons. In order to improve the sensitivity of the search, events are categorised according to their jet and b-tagged jet multiplicities. A neural network is used to discriminate between signal and background events, the latter being dominated by tt̅+jets production. In the single-lepton channel, variables calculated using a matrix element method are included as inputs to the neural network to improve discrimination of the irreducible tt̅+bb̅ background. No significant excess of events above the background expectation is found and an observed (expected) limit of 3.4 (2.2) times the Standard Model cross section is obtained at 95% confidence level. The ratio of the measured tt̅H signal cross section to the Standard Model expectation is found to be μ = 1.5 ± 1.1 assuming a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV.
Measurement of the Z boson differential cross section in transverse momentum and rapidity in proton-proton collisions at 8 TeV. We present a measurement of the Z boson differential cross section in rapidity and transverse momentum using a data sample of pp collision events at a centre-of-mass energy √(s) = 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The Z boson is identified via its decay to a pair of muons. The measurement provides a precision test of quantum chromodynamics over a large region of phase space. In addition, due to the small experimental uncertainties in the measurement the data has the potential to constrain the gluon parton distribution function in the kinematic regime important for Higgs boson production via gluon fusion. The results agree with the next-to-next-to-leading-order predictions computed with the FEWZ program. The results are also compared to the commonly used leading-order MADGRAPH and next-to-leading-order POWHEG generators.
Search for anomalous production of prompt same-sign lepton pairs and pair-produced doubly charged Higgs bosons with √(s) = 8 TeV pp collisions using the ATLAS detector. A low-background inclusive search for new physics in events with same-sign dileptons is presented. The search uses proton–proton collisions corresponding to 20.3 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity taken in 2012 at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Pairs of isolated leptons with the same electric charge and large transverse momenta of the type e^±e^±, e^±μ^±, and μ^±μ^± are selected and their invariant mass distribution is examined. No excess of events above the expected level of Standard Model background is found. The results are used to set upper limits on the cross sections for processes beyond the Standard Model. Limits are placed as a function of the dilepton invariant mass within a fiducial region corresponding to the signal event selection criteria. Exclusion limits are also derived for a specific model of doubly charged Higgs boson production.
Evidence for the Higgs-boson Yukawa coupling to tau leptons with the ATLAS detector. Results of a search for H →ττ decays are presented, based on the full set of proton–proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC during 2011 and 2012. The data correspond to integrated luminosities of 4.5 fb^-1 and 20.3 fb^-1 at centre-of-mass energies of √(s) = 7 TeV and √(s) = 8 TeV respectively. All combinations of leptonic (τ→ℓνν̅ with ℓ = e, μ) and hadronic (τ→hadronsν) tau decays are considered. An excess of events over the expected background from other Standard Model processes is found with an observed (expected) significance of 4.5 (3.4) standard deviations. This excess provides evidence for the direct coupling of the recently discovered Higgs boson to fermions. The measured signal strength, normalised to the Standard Model expectation, of μ = 1.43 ^+0.43_-0.37 is consistent with the predicted Yukawa coupling strength in the Standard Model.
Search for resonant pair production of Higgs bosons decaying to bottom quark-antiquark pairs in proton-proton collisions at 13 TeV. A search for a narrow-width resonance decaying into two Higgs bosons, each decaying into a bottom quark-antiquark pair, is presented. The search is performed using proton-proton collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 at √(s)= 13 TeV recorded by the CMS detector at the LHC. No evidence for such a signal is observed. Upper limits are set on the product of the production cross section for the resonance and the branching fraction for the selected decay mode in the resonance mass range from 260 to 1200 GeV.
Search for charged Higgs bosons decaying via H^±→τν in tt̅ events using pp collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The results of a search for charged Higgs bosons are presented. The analysis is based on 4.6/fb of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider, using top quark pair events with a tau lepton in the final state. The data are consistent with the expected background from Standard Model processes. Assuming that the branching ratio of the charged Higgs boson to a tau lepton and a neutrino is 100%, this leads to upper limits on the branching ratio of top quark decays to a b quark and a charged Higgs boson between 5% and 1% for charged Higgs boson masses ranging from 90 GeV to 160 GeV, respectively. In the context of the mh-max scenario of the MSSM, tan(beta) above 12-26, as well as between 1 and 2-6, can be excluded for charged Higgs boson masses between 90 GeV and 150 GeV.
Measurements of gluon-gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion Higgs boson production cross-sections in the H → WW^∗→ eνμν decay channel in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Higgs boson production cross-sections in proton-proton collisions are measured in the H → WW^∗→ eνμν decay channel. The proton–proton collision data were produced at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. The product of the H → WW^∗ branching fraction times the gluon–gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion cross-sections are measured to be 11.4 ^+1.2_-1.1 (stat.) ^+1.8_-1.7(syst.) pb and 0.50 ^+0.24_-0.22 (stat.) ± 0.17(syst.) pb, respectively, in agreement with Standard Model predictions.
Measurements of inclusive semileptonic branching fractions of b hadrons in Z^0 decays. A measurement of inclusive semileptonic branching fractions of b hadrons produced in Z decays is presented. An enriched Z -> bbbar sample is obtained with a lifetime flavour-tagging technique. The leptonic events are then selected from this sample, and classified according to their origin, which is determined by comparing the distribution of several kinematic variables using artificial neural network techniques. Using 3.6 million multihadronic events collected with the OPAL detector at energies near the Z resonance, the values BR(b->lX) =(10.83 +- 0.10(stat.) +- 0.20(syst.) +0.20 -0.13(model)) % BR(b->c->lX) = (8.40 +- 0.16(stat.) +- 0.21(syst.) +0.33 -0.29 (model)) % are measured, where b denotes all weakly decaying b hadrons and l represents either e or mu. The second error includes all experimental systematic uncertainties whereas the last error is due to uncertainties in modelling of the lepton momentum spectrum in semileptonic decays and b quark fragmentation. The average fraction of the beam energy carried by the weakly decaying b hadron, xe, is measured to be <xe> = 0.709 +- 0.003(stat.) +- 0.003 (syst.) +- 0.013(model) where the modelling error is dominated by the choice of b fragmentation model. The agreement between data and various semileptonic decay models and fragmentation functions is also investigated.
Evidence for the Higgs boson decay to a bottom quark-antiquark pair. A search for the standard model (SM) Higgs boson (H) decaying to bb when produced in association with an electroweak vector boson is reported for the following processes: Z(νν)H, W(μν)H, W(eν)H, Z(μμ)H, and Z(ee)H. The search is performed in data samples corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 at √(s)= 13 TeV recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC during Run 2 in 2016. An excess of events is observed in data compared to the expectation in the absence of a H→bb signal. The significance of this excess is 3.3 standard deviations, where the expectation from SM Higgs boson production is 2.8. The signal strength corresponding to this excess, relative to that of the SM Higgs boson production, is 1.2 ± 0.4. When combined with the Run 1 measurement of the same processes, the signal significance is 3.8 standard deviations with 3.8 expected. The corresponding signal strength, relative to that of the SM Higgs boson, is 1.06 ^+0.31_-0.29.
Search for resonances in the mass spectrum of muon pairs produced in association with b quark jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 and 13 TeV. A search for resonances in the mass range 12-70 GeV produced in association with a b quark jet and a second jet, and decaying to a muon pair, is reported. The analysis is based on data from proton-proton collisions at center-of-mass energies of 8 and 13 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the LHC and corresponding to integrated luminosities of 19.7 and 35.9 fb^-1, respectively. The search is carried out in two mutually exclusive event categories. Events in the first category are required to have a b quark jet in the central region (|η|≤ 2.4) and at least one jet in the forward region (|η|>2.4). Events in the second category are required to have two jets in the central region, at least one of which is identified as a b quark jet, no jets in the forward region, and low missing transverse momentum. An excess of events above the background near a dimuon mass of 28 GeV is observed in the 8 TeV data, corresponding to local significances of 4.2 and 2.9 standard deviations for the first and second event categories, respectively. A similar analysis conducted with the 13 TeV data results in a mild excess over the background in the first event category corresponding to a local significance of 2.0 standard deviations, while the second category results in a 1.4 standard deviation deficit. The fiducial cross section measurements and 95% confidence level upper limits on those for a resonance consistent with the 8 TeV excess are provided at both collision energies.
Combined results of searches for the standard model Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. Combined results are reported from searches for the standard model Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV in five Higgs boson decay modes: gamma pair, b-quark pair, tau lepton pair, W pair, and Z pair. The explored Higgs boson mass range is 110-600 GeV. The analysed data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.6-4.8 inverse femtobarns. The expected excluded mass range in the absence of the standard model Higgs boson is 118-543 GeV at 95% CL. The observed results exclude the standard model Higgs boson in the mass range 127-600 GeV at 95% CL, and in the mass range 129-525 GeV at 99% CL. An excess of events above the expected standard model background is observed at the low end of the explored mass range making the observed limits weaker than expected in the absence of a signal. The largest excess, with a local significance of 3.1 sigma, is observed for a Higgs boson mass hypothesis of 124 GeV. The global significance of observing an excess with a local significance greater than 3.1 sigma anywhere in the search range 110-600 (110-145) GeV is estimated to be 1.5 sigma (2.1 sigma). More data are required to ascertain the origin of this excess.
Search for long-lived particles in final states with displaced dimuon vertices in pp collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for a long-lived particle decaying into a final state that includes a pair of muons of opposite-sign electric charge, using proton-proton collision data collected at √(s)= 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 32.9 fb^-1. No significant excess over the Standard Model expectation is observed. Limits at 95% confidence level on the lifetime of the long-lived particle are presented in models of new phenomena including gauge-mediated supersymmetry or decay of the Higgs boson, H, to a pair of dark photons, Z_D. Lifetimes in the range cτ = 1-2400 cm are excluded, depending on the parameters of the model. In the supersymmetric model, the lightest neutralino is the next-to-lightest supersymmetric particle, with a relatively long lifetime due to its weak coupling to the gravitino, the lightest supersymmetric particle. The lifetime limits are determined for very light gravitino mass and various assumptions for the neutralino mass in the range 300 GeV to 1000 GeV. In the dark photon model, the lifetime limits are interpreted as exclusion contours in the plane of the coupling between the Z_D and the Standard Model Z boson versus the Z_D mass (in the range 20-60 GeV), for various assumptions for the H→ Z_D Z_D branching fraction.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson in e^+ e^- Interactions at 161 ≤√(s)≤ 172 GeV. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson has been performed with the L3 detector at LEP. The data sample was collected at three centre-of-mass energies, 161.3, 170.3 and 172.3 GeV with integrated luminosities of 10.8, 1.0 and 9.2 pb^-1, respectively. No Higgs signal is observed. In combination with previous data taken at the Z resonance, a lower Higgs mass limit, M_H > 69.5 GeV, is obtained at 95% confidence level.
Search for charged Higgs bosons produced in association with a top quark and decaying via H^±→τν using pp collision data recorded at √(s) = 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector. Charged Higgs bosons produced in association with a single top quark and decaying via H^±→τν are searched for with the ATLAS experiment at the LHC, using proton–proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 3.2 fb^-1. The final state is characterised by the presence of a hadronic τ decay and missing transverse momentum, as well as a hadronically decaying top quark, resulting in the absence of high-transverse-momentum electrons and muons. The data are found to be consistent with the expected background from Standard Model processes. A statistical analysis leads to 95% confidence-level upper limits on the production cross section times branching fraction, σ(pp → [b]t H^±) ×(H^±→τν), between 1.9 pb and 15 fb, for charged Higgs boson masses ranging from 200 to 2000 GeV. The exclusion limits for this search surpass those obtained with the proton–proton collision data recorded at √(s) = 8 TeV.
Measurement of the Probability of Gluon Splitting into Charmed Quarks in Hadronic Z Decays. We have measured the probability, n_g→ cc, of a gluon splitting into a charm-quark pair using 1.7 million hadronic Z decays collected by the L3 detector. Two independent methods have been applied to events with a three-jet topology. One method relies on tagging charmed hadrons by identifying a lepton in the lowest energy jet. The other method uses a neural network based on global event shape parameters. Combining both methods, we measure n_g→ cc = [2.45 ± 0.29 ± 0.53].
Search for an exotic decay of the Higgs boson to a pair of light pseudoscalars in the final state of two muons and two τ leptons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for exotic Higgs boson decays to light pseudoscalars in the final state of two muons and two τ leptons is performed using proton-proton collision data recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Masses of the pseudoscalar boson between 15.0 and 62.5 GeV are probed, and no significant excess of data is observed above the prediction of the standard model. Upper limits are set on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson to two light pseudoscalar bosons in different types of two-Higgs-doublet models extended with a complex scalar singlet.
Search for heavy vector-like quarks coupling to light quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This letter presents a search for singly produced vector-like quarks, Q, coupling to light quarks, q. The search is sensitive to both charged current (CC) and neutral current (NC) processes, p p –> Q q –> W q q' and p p –> Q q –> Z q q' with a leptonic decay of the vector gauge boson. In 1.04/fb of data taken in 2011 by the ATLAS experiment at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 7 TeV, no evidence of such heavy vector-like quarks is observed above the expected Standard Model background. Limits on the heavy vector-like quark production cross section times branching ratio as a function of mass m_Q are obtained. For a coupling κ_qQ = v/m_Q, where v is the Higgs vacuum expectation value, 95% C.L. lower limits on the mass of a vector-like quark are set at 900 GeV and 760 GeV from CC and NC processes, respectively.
Measurement of the Z boson differential cross section in transverse momentum and rapidity in proton-proton collisions at 8 TeV. We present a measurement of the Z boson differential cross section in rapidity and transverse momentum using a data sample of pp collision events at a centre-of-mass energy √(s) = 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The Z boson is identified via its decay to a pair of muons. The measurement provides a precision test of quantum chromodynamics over a large region of phase space. In addition, due to the small experimental uncertainties in the measurement the data has the potential to constrain the gluon parton distribution function in the kinematic regime important for Higgs boson production via gluon fusion. The results agree with the next-to-next-to-leading-order predictions computed with the FEWZ program. The results are also compared to the commonly used leading-order MADGRAPH and next-to-leading-order POWHEG generators.
Search for single production of a vector-like quark via a heavy gluon in the 4b final state with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search is performed for the process pp → G^* → B_Hb̅/B̅_H b → H b b̅→ bb̅bb̅, predicted in composite Higgs scenarios, where G^* is a heavy colour octet vector resonance and B_H a vector-like quark of charge -1/3. The data were obtained from pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 fb^-1, recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The largest background, multijet production, is estimated using a data-driven method. No significant excess of events with respect to Standard Model predictions is observed, and upper limits on the production cross section times branching ratio are set. Comparisons to the predictions from a specific benchmark model are made, resulting in lower mass limits in the two-dimensional mass plane of m_G^* vs. m_B_H.
Search for a Higgs boson decaying into a Z and a photon in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV. A search for a Higgs boson decaying into a Z boson and a photon is described. The analysis is performed using proton–proton collision datasets recorded by the CMS detector at the LHC. Events were collected at center-of-mass energies of 7 TeV and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.0 fb−1 and 19.6 fb−1, respectively. The selected events are required to have opposite-sign electron or muon pairs. No excess above standard model predictions has been found in the 120–160 GeV mass range and the first limits on the Higgs boson production cross section times the H→Zγ branching fraction at the LHC have been derived. The observed at 95% confidence level limits are between about 4 and 25 times the standard model cross section times the branching fraction. For a standard model Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV the expected limit at the 95% confidence level is 10 and the observed limit is 9.5. Models predicting the Higgs boson production cross section times the H→Zγ branching fraction to be larger than one order of magnitude of the standard model prediction are excluded for most of the 125–157 GeV mass range.
Search for direct production of charginos and neutralinos in events with three leptons and missing transverse momentum in √(s) = 8 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search for the direct production of charginos and neutralinos in final states with three leptons and missing transverse momentum is presented. The analysis is based on 20.3 fb^−1 of √(s) = 8 TeV proton-proton collision data delivered by the Large Hadron Collider and recorded with the ATLAS detector. Observations are consistent with the Standard Model expectations and limits are set in R-parity-conserving phenomenological Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Models and in simplified supersymmetric models, significantly extending previous results.  For simplified supersymmetric models of direct chargino (χ̃^±_1) and next-to-lightest neutralino (χ̃_2^0) production with decays to lightest neutralino (χ̃_1^0) via either all three generations of sleptons, staus only, gauge bosons, or Higgs bosons, χ̃^±_1 and χ̃_2^0 masses are excluded up to 700 GeV, 380 GeV, 345 GeV, or 148 GeV respectively, for a massless χ̃_1^0.
Modelling Z→ττ processes in ATLAS with τ-embedded Z→μμ data. This paper describes the concept, technical realisation and validation of a largely data-driven method to model events with Z→ττ decays. In Z→μμ events selected from proton-proton collision data recorded at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in 2012, the Z decay muons are replaced by τ leptons from simulated Z→ττ decays at the level of reconstructed tracks and calorimeter cells. The τ lepton kinematics are derived from the kinematics of the original muons. Thus, only the well-understood decays of the Z boson and τ leptons as well as the detector response to the τ decay products are obtained from simulation. All other aspects of the event, such as the Z boson and jet kinematics as well as effects from multiple interactions, are given by the actual data. This so-called τ-embedding method is particularly relevant for Higgs boson searches and analyses in ττ final states, where Z→ττ decays constitute a large irreducible background that cannot be obtained directly from data control samples.
Measurement of VH, H→ bb̅ production as a function of the vector-boson transverse momentum in 13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. Cross-sections of associated production of a Higgs boson decaying into bottom-quark pairs and an electroweak gauge boson, W or Z, decaying into leptons are measured as a function of the gauge boson transverse momentum. The measurements are performed in kinematic fiducial volumes defined in the `simplified template cross-section' framework. The results are obtained using 79.8 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. All measurements are found to be in agreement with the Standard Model predictions, and limits are set on the parameters of an effective Lagrangian sensitive to modifications of the Higgs boson couplings to the electroweak gauge bosons. 
Search for beyond the standard model Higgs bosons decaying into a bb pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for Higgs bosons that decay into a bottom quark-antiquark pair and are accompanied by at least one additional bottom quark is performed with the CMS detector. The data analyzed were recorded in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.7 fb^-1. The final state considered in this analysis is particularly sensitive to signatures of a Higgs sector beyond the standard model, as predicted in the generic class of two Higgs doublet models (2HDMs). No signal above the standard model background expectation is observed. Stringent upper limits on the cross section times branching fraction are set for Higgs bosons with masses up to 1300 GeV. The results are interpreted within several MSSM and 2HDM scenarios.
Search for a Higgs Boson Decaying into Two Photons in e^+ e^- Interactions at √(s)= 189 GeV. A search is performed for a Higgs boson produced in association with a Z boson and decaying into two photons, using the L3 data collected at LEP at a centre-of-mass energy of 189 GeV. All decay modes of the Z are considered. No signal is observed and limits on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay into two photons as a function of the Higgs mass are derived assuming a Standard Model production rate. A lower limit on the mass of a fermiophobic Higgs is set at 94.9 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Search for pair production of Higgs bosons in the bb̅bb̅ final state using proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅bb̅ final state is carried out with up to 36.1 fb^-1 of LHC proton–proton collision data collected at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016. Three benchmark signals are studied: a spin-2 graviton decaying into a Higgs boson pair, a scalar resonance decaying into a Higgs boson pair, and Standard Model non-resonant Higgs boson pair production. Two analyses are carried out, each implementing a particular technique for the event reconstruction that targets Higgs bosons reconstructed as pairs of jets or single boosted jets. The resonance mass range covered is 260–3000 GeV. The analyses are statistically combined and upper limits on the production cross section of Higgs boson pairs times branching ratio to bb̅bb̅ are set in each model. No significant excess is observed; the largest deviation of data over prediction is found at a mass of 280 GeV, corresponding to 2.3 standard deviations globally. The observed 95% confidence level upper limit on the non-resonant production is 13 times the Standard Model prediction.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons decaying to τ^+ τ^- pairs in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for neutral Higgs bosons decaying to pairs of tau leptons with the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. The analysis is based on proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV, recorded in 2010 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36 pb^-1. After signal selection, 276 events are observed in this data sample. The observed number of events is consistent with the total expected background of 269 +/- 36 events. Exclusion limits at the 95% confidence level are derived for the production cross section of a generic Higgs boson phi as a function of the Higgs boson mass and for A/H/h production in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM) as a function of the parameters m_A and tan(beta). 
Search for direct top squark pair production in events with a Higgs or Z boson, and missing transverse momentum in √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search for direct top squark pair production resulting in events with either a same-flavour opposite-sign dilepton pair with invariant mass compatible with a Z boson or a pair of jets compatible with a Standard Model (SM) Higgs boson (h) is presented. Requirements on additional leptons, jets, jets identified as originating from b-quarks, and missing transverse momentum are imposed to target the other decay products of the top squark pair. The analysis is performed using proton-proton collision data at √(s)=13 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC in 2015–2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. No excess is observed in the data with respect to the SM predictions. The results are interpreted in two sets of models. In the first set, direct production of pairs of lighter top squarks (t̃_1) with long decay chains involving Z or Higgs bosons is considered. The second set includes direct pair production of the heavier top squark pairs (t̃_2) decaying via t̃_2 → Z t̃_1 or t̃_2 → h t̃_1. The results exclude at 95% confidence level t̃_2 and t̃_1 masses up to about 800 GeV, extending the exclusion region of supersymmetric parameter space covered by previous LHC searches.
Search for a non-minimal Higgs boson produced in the reaction e^+e^-→ hZ.
Search for a heavy resonance decaying to a top quark and a vector-like top quark in the lepton+jets final state in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for a heavy spin-1 resonance Z' decaying to a top quark and a vector-like top quark partner T in the lepton+jets final state. The search is performed using a data set of pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 as recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC in the year 2016. The analysis is optimised for final states arising from the T decay modes to a top quark and a Higgs or Z boson (T → Ht, Zt). The event selection makes use of resolved and merged top quark decay products, as well as decays of boosted Higgs bosons and Z and W bosons using jet substructure techniques. No significant deviation from the standard model background expectation is observed. Exclusion limits on the product of the cross section and branching fraction for Z' → ttT, T → Ht, Zt, Wb are presented for various combinations of the Z' resonance mass and the vector-like T quark mass. These results represent the most stringent limits to date for the decay mode Z' → tT → tHt. In a benchmark model with extra dimensions, invoking a heavy spin-1 resonance G^*, masses of the G^* between 1.5 and 2.3 TeV and between 2.0 and 2.4 TeV are excluded for T masses of 1.2 and 1.5 TeV, respectively.
Search for Yukawa Production of a Light Neutral Higgs Boson at LEP. Within a Two-Higgs-Doublet Model (2HDM) a search for a light Higgs boson in the mass range of 4-12 GeV has been performed in the Yukawa process e+e- -> b bbar A/h -> b bbar tau+tau-, using the data collected by the OPAL detector at LEP between 1992 and 1995 in e+e- collisions at about 91 GeV centre-of-mass energy. A likelihood selection is applied to separate background and signal. The number of observed events is in good agreement with the expected background. Within a CP-conserving 2HDM type II model the cross-section for Yukawa production depends on xiAd = |tan beta| and xihd = |sin alpha/cos beta| for the production of the CP-odd A and the CP-even h, respectively, where tan beta is the ratio of the vacuum expectation values of the Higgs doublets and alpha is the mixing angle between the neutral CP-even Higgs bosons. From our data 95% C.L. upper limits are derived for xiAd within the range of 8.5 to 13.6 and for xihd between 8.2 to 13.7, depending on the mass of the Higgs boson, assuming a branching fraction into tau+tau- of 100%. An interpretation of the limits within a 2HDM type II model with Standard Model particle content is given. These results impose constraints on several models that have been proposed to explain the recent BNL measurement of the muon anomalous magnetic moment.
Search for supersymmetry in events with photons, bottom quarks, and missing transverse momentum in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search has been performed for the experimental signature of an isolated photon with high transverse momentum, at least one jet identified as originating from a bottom quark, and high missing transverse momentum. Such a final state may originate from supersymmetric models with gauge-mediated supersymmetry breaking in events in which one of a pair of higgsino-like neutralinos decays into a photon and a gravitino while the other decays into a Higgs boson and a gravitino. The search is performed using the full dataset of 7 TeV proton-proton collisions recorded with the ATLAS detector at the LHC in 2011, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb-1. A total of 7 candidate events are observed while 7.5 pm 2.2 events are expected from the Standard Model background. The results of the search are interpreted in the context of general gauge mediation to exclude certain regions of a benchmark plane for higgsino-like neutralino production.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the H → WW^(*)→ lν lν decay mode with 4.7 fb^-1 of ATLAS data at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the H → WW^(*)→ lν lν (l = e, μ) decay mode is presented. The search is performed using proton-proton collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV collected during 2011 with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess of events over the expected background is observed. An upper bound is placed on the Higgs boson production cross section as a function of its mass. A Standard Model Higgs boson with mass in the range between 133 GeV and 261 GeV is excluded at 95% confidence level, while the expected exclusion range is from 127 GeV to 233 GeV.
Identification of heavy, energetic, hadronically decaying particles using machine-learning techniques. Machine-learning (ML) techniques are explored to identify and classify hadronic decays of highly Lorentz-boosted W/Z/Higgs bosons and top quarks. Techniques without ML have also been evaluated and are included for comparison. The identification performances of a variety of algorithms are characterized in simulated events and directly compared with data. The algorithms are validated using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Systematic uncertainties are assessed by comparing the results obtained using simulation and collision data. The new techniques studied in this paper provide significant performance improvements over non-ML techniques, reducing the background rate by up to an order of magnitude at the same signal efficiency.
Search for nonresonant Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅bb̅ final state at √(s) = 13 TeV. Results of a search for nonresonant production of Higgs boson pairs, with each Higgs boson decaying to a bb̅ pair, are presented. This search uses data from proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, collected by the CMS detector at the LHC. No signal is observed, and a 95% confidence level upper limit of 847 fb is set on the cross section for standard model nonresonant Higgs boson pair production times the squared branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay to a bb̅ pair. The same signature is studied, and upper limits are set, in the context of models of physics beyond the standard model that predict modified couplings of the Higgs boson.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the γγ bb̅ final state with 13 TeV pp collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment. A search is performed for resonant and non-resonant Higgs boson pair production in the γγ bb̅ final state. The data set used corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess relative to the Standard Model expectation is observed. The observed limit on the non-resonant Higgs boson pair cross-section is 0.73 pb at 95% confidence level. This observed limit is equivalent to 22 times the predicted Standard Model cross-section. The Higgs boson self-coupling (κ_λ = λ_HHH / λ_HHH^ SM) is constrained at 95% confidence level to -8.2 < κ_λ < 13.2. For resonant Higgs boson pair production through X → HH → γγ bb̅, the limit is presented, using the narrow-width approximation, as a function of m_X in the range 260 GeV < m_X < 1000 GeV. The observed limits range from 1.1 pb to 0.12 pb over this mass range.
Measurement of W^+W^- Production and Search for the Higgs Boson in pp Collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A measurement of W^+W^- production in pp collisions at sqrt(s) = 7 TeV and a search for the Higgs boson are reported. The W^+W^- candidates are selected in events with two leptons, either electrons or muons. The measurement is performed using LHC data recorded with the CMS detector, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36 inverse picobarns. The pp to W^+W^- cross section is measured to be 41.1 ± 15.3 (stat) ± 5.8 (syst) ± 4.5 (lumi) pb, consistent with the standard model prediction. Limits on WW gamma and WWZ anomalous triple gauge couplings are set. The search for the standard model Higgs boson in the W^+W^- decay mode does not reveal any evidence of excess above backgrounds. Limits are set on the production of the Higgs boson in the context of the standard model and in the presence of a sequential fourth family of fermions with high masses. In the latter context, a Higgs boson with mass between 144 and 207 GeV/c2 is ruled out at 95% confidence level.
Measurement of differential and integrated fiducial cross sections for Higgs boson production in the four-lepton decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV. Differential and integrated fiducial cross sections for the production of four leptons via the H→ 4ℓ decays (ℓ = e, μ) are measured in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV. Measurements are performed with data corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 fb^-1 at 7 TeV, and 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV, collected with the CMS experiment at the LHC. Differential cross sections are determined as functions of the transverse momentum and rapidity of the four-lepton system, accompanying jet multiplicity, transverse momentum of the leading jet, and difference in rapidity between the Higgs boson candidate and the leading jet. A measurement of the Z→ 4ℓ cross section, and its ratio to the H→ 4ℓ cross section is also performed. All cross sections are measured within a fiducial phase space defined by the requirements on lepton kinematics and event topology. The integrated H→ 4ℓ fiducial cross section is measured to be 0.56^ +0.67_ -0.44(stat) ^ +0.21_ -0.06(syst) fb at 7 TeV, and 1.11^ +0.41_ -0.35(stat) ^ +0.14_ -0.10(syst) fb at 8 TeV. The measurements are found to be compatible with theoretical calculations based on the standard model.
Search for light long-lived neutral particles produced in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV and decaying into collimated leptons or light hadrons with the ATLAS detector. Several models of physics beyond the Standard Model predict the existence of dark photons, light neutral particles decaying into collimated leptons or light hadrons. This paper presents a search for long-lived dark photons produced from the decay of a Higgs boson or a heavy scalar boson and decaying into displaced collimated Standard Model fermions. The search uses data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2015-2016 with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The observed number of events is consistent with the expected background, and limits on the production cross section times branching fraction as a function of the proper decay length of the dark photon are reported. A cross section times branching fraction above 4 pb is excluded for a Higgs boson decaying into two dark photons for dark-photon decay lengths between 1.5 mm and 307 mm.
Search for a standard model-like Higgs boson in the μ^+μ^- and e^+e^- decay channels at the LHC. A search is presented for a standard model-like Higgs boson decaying to the μ^+μ^- or e^+e^- final states based on proton-proton collisions recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC. The data correspond to integrated luminosities of 5.0fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV and 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV for the μ^+μ^- search, and of 19.7 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV for the e^+e^- search. To enhance the sensitivity of the search, events are categorized by topologies according to production process and dilepton invariant mass resolution. Upper limits on the production cross section times branching fraction at the 95% confidence level are reported for Higgs boson masses in the range from 120 to 150GeV. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 125GeV decaying to μ^+μ^-, the observed (expected) upper limit on the production rate is found to be 7.4 (6.5^+2.8_-1.9) times the standard model value. This corresponds to an upper limit on the branching fraction of 0.0016. Similarly, for e^+e^-, an upper limit of 0.0019 is placed on the branching fraction, which is ≈3.7×10^5 times the standard model value. These results, together with recent evidence of the 125GeV boson coupling to τ-leptons with a larger branching fraction consistent with the standard model, show for the first time that the leptonic couplings of the new boson are not flavour-universal.
Measurements of Higgs boson properties in the diphoton decay channel with 36 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Properties of the Higgs boson are measured in the two-photon final state using 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded at √(s) = 13 TeV by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. Cross-section measurements for the production of a Higgs boson through gluon-gluon fusion, vector-boson fusion, and in association with a vector bosonor a top-quark pair are reported. The signal strength, defined as the ratio of the observed to the expected signal yield, is measured for each of these production processes as well as inclusively. The global signal strength measurement of 0.99 ± 0.14 improves on the precision of the ATLAS measurement at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV by a factor of two. Measurements of gluon-gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion productions yield signal strengths compatible with the Standard Model prediction. Measurements of simplified template cross sections, designed to quantify the different Higgs boson production processes in specific regions of phase space, are reported. The cross section for the production of the Higgs boson decaying to two isolated photons in a fiducial region closely matching the experimental selection of the photons is measured to be 55 ± 10 fb, which is in good agreement with the Standard Model prediction of 64 ± 2 fb. Furthermore, cross sections in fiducial regions enriched in Higgs boson production in vector-boson fusion or in association with large missing transverse momentum, leptons or top-quark pairs are reported. Differential and double-differential measurements are performed for several variables related to the diphoton kinematics as well as the kinematics and multiplicity of the jets produced in association with a Higgs boson. No significant deviations from a wide array of Standard Model predictions are observed.
Search for heavy resonances decaying to two Higgs bosons in final states containing four b quarks. A search is presented for narrow heavy resonances X decaying into pairs of Higgs bosons (H) in proton-proton collisions collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at √(s) = 8 TeV. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The search considers HH resonances with masses between 1 and 3 TeV, having final states of two b quark pairs. Each Higgs boson is produced with large momentum, and the hadronization products of the pair of b quarks can usually be reconstructed as single large jets. The background from multijet and t t̅ events is significantly reduced by applying requirements related to the flavor of the jet, its mass, and its substructure. The signal would be identified as a peak on top of the dijet invariant mass spectrum of the remaining background events. No evidence is observed for such a signal. Upper limits obtained at 95% confidence level for the product of the production cross section and branching fraction σ(  gg → X  ) ℬ(  X → HH → b b̅ b b̅) range from 10 to 1.5 fb for the mass of X from 1.15 to 2.0 TeV, significantly extending previous searches. For a warped extra dimension theory with a mass scale Λ_R = 1 TeV, the data exclude radion scalar masses between 1.15 and 1.55 TeV.
Lower bound for the standard model Higgs boson mass from combining the results of the four LEP experiments.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅ bb̅ final state from pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson pair production pp → hh is performed with 19.5 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data at √(s)= 8 TeV, which were recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in 2012. The decay products of each Higgs boson are reconstructed as a high-momentum bb̅ system with either a pair of small-radius jets or a single large-radius jet, the latter exploiting jet substructure techniques and associated b-tagged track-jets. No evidence for resonant or non-resonant Higgs boson pair production is observed. The data are interpreted in the context of the Randall–Sundrum model with a warped extra dimension as well as the two-Higgs-doublet model. An upper limit on the cross-section for pp → G^*_KK→ hh → bb̅ bb̅ of 3.2 (2.3) fb is set for a Kaluza–Klein graviton G^*_KK mass of 1.0 (1.5) TeV, at the 95% confidence level. The search for non-resonant Standard Model hh production sets an observed 95% confidence level upper limit on the production cross-section σ(pp → hh → bb̅bb̅) of 202 fb, compared to a SM prediction of σ(pp → hh → bb̅bb̅) = 3.6 ± 0.5 fb.
Searches for exclusive Higgs and Z boson decays into J/ψγ, ψ(2S)γ, and Υ(nS)γ at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Searches for the exclusive decays of the Higgs and Z bosons into a J/ψ, ψ(2S), or Υ(nS) (n=1,2,3) meson and a photon are performed with a pp collision data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess of events is observed above the expected backgrounds, and 95% confidence-level upper limits on the branching fractions of the Higgs boson decays to J/ψγ, ψ(2S)γ, and Υ(nS)γ of 3.5×10^-4, 2.0×10^-3, and (4.9,5.9,5.7)×10^-4, respectively, are obtained assuming Standard Model production. The corresponding 95% confidence-level upper limits for the branching fractions of the Z boson decays are 2.3×10^-6, 4.5×10^-6 and (2.8,1.7,4.8)×10^-6, respectively.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in events with two bottom quarks and two tau leptons in proton–proton collisions at √(s) =13TeV. A search for the production of Higgs boson pairs in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV is presented, using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. Events with one Higgs boson decaying into two bottom quarks and the other decaying into two τ leptons are explored to investigate both resonant and nonresonant production mechanisms. The data are found to be consistent, within uncertainties, with the standard model background predictions. For resonant production, upper limits at the 95% confidence level are set on the production cross section for Higgs boson pairs as a function of the hypothesized resonance mass and are interpreted in the context of the minimal supersymmetric standard model. For nonresonant production, upper limits on the production cross section constrain the parameter space for anomalous Higgs boson couplings. The observed (expected) upper limit at 95% confidence level corresponds to about 30 (25) times the prediction of the standard model.
Search for a very light Higgs boson in Z decays.
Search for Higgs Boson Pair Production in the γγ bb̅ Final State using pp Collision Data at √(s)=8TeV from the ATLAS Detector. Searches are performed for resonant and non-resonant Higgs boson pair production in the hh →γγ b  b final state using 20 fb^-1 of proton–proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. A 95% confidence level upper limit on the cross section times branching ratio of non–resonant production is set at 2.2 pb, while the expected limit is 1.0 pb. The corresponding limit observed for a narrow resonance ranges between 0.8 and 3.5 pb as a function of its mass.
Measurement of VH, H→ bb̅ production as a function of the vector-boson transverse momentum in 13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. Cross-sections of associated production of a Higgs boson decaying into bottom-quark pairs and an electroweak gauge boson, W or Z, decaying into leptons are measured as a function of the gauge boson transverse momentum. The measurements are performed in kinematic fiducial volumes defined in the `simplified template cross-section' framework. The results are obtained using 79.8 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. All measurements are found to be in agreement with the Standard Model predictions, and limits are set on the parameters of an effective Lagrangian sensitive to modifications of the Higgs boson couplings to the electroweak gauge bosons. 
Search for Dark Matter Produced in Association with a Higgs Boson Decaying to bb̅ using 36 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS Detector. Several extensions of the Standard Model predict associated production of dark-matter particles with a Higgs boson. Such processes are searched for in final states with missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson decaying to a bb̅ pair with the ATLAS detector using 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV at the LHC. The observed data are in agreement with the Standard Model predictions and limits are placed on the associated production of dark-matter particles and a Higgs boson.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson in e^+ e^- Collisions at √(s) = 161 GeV.
Measurements of Higgs boson production and couplings in the four-lepton channel in pp collisions at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The final ATLAS Run 1 measurements of Higgs boson production and couplings in the decay channel H→ ZZ^*→ℓ^+ℓ^-ℓ^'+ℓ^'-, where ℓ,ℓ^'=e or μ, are presented. These measurements were performed using pp collision data corresponding to integrated luminosities of 4.5 fb^-1 and 20.3 fb^-1 at center-of-mass energies of 7 TeV and 8 TeV, respectively, recorded with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ signal is observed with a significance of 8.1 standard deviations at 125.36 GeV, the combined ATLAS measurement of the Higgs boson mass from the H→γγ and H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ channels. The production rate relative to the Standard Model expectation, the signal strength, is measured in four different production categories in the H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ channel. The measured signal strength, at this mass, and with all categories combined, is 1.44 ^+0.40_-0.33. The signal strength for Higgs boson production in gluon fusion or in association with tt̅ or bb̅ pairs is found to be 1.7 ^+0.5_-0.4, while the signal strength for vector-boson fusion combined with WH/ZH associated production is found to be 0.3 ^+1.6_-0.9.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in the H^± → τ^±ν_τ decay channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for charged Higgs bosons in the H^±→τ^±ν_τ decay mode in the hadronic final state and in final states with an electron or muon. The search is based on proton-proton collision data recorded by the CMS experiment in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The results agree with the background expectation from the standard model. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the production cross section times branching fraction to τ^±ν_τ for an H^± in the mass range of 80 GeV to 3 TeV, including the region near the top quark mass. The observed limit ranges from 6 pb at 80 GeV to 5 fb at 3 TeV. The limits are interpreted in the context of the minimal supersymmetric standard model m_h^mod- scenario.
Searches for heavy Higgs bosons in two-Higgs-doublet models and for t→ch decay using multilepton and diphoton final states in pp collisions at 8 TeV. Searches are presented for heavy scalar (H) and pseudoscalar (A) Higgs bosons posited in the two doublet model (2HDM) extensions of the standard model (SM). These searches are based on a data sample of pp collisions collected with the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 fb^-1. The decays H→hh and A→Zh, where h denotes an SM-like Higgs boson, lead to events with three or more isolated charged leptons or with a photon pair accompanied by one or more isolated leptons. The search results are presented in terms of the H and A production cross sections times branching fractions and are further interpreted in terms of 2HDM parameters. We place 95% CL cross section upper limits of approximately 7 pb on σℬ for H→hh and 2 pb for A→Zh. Also presented are the results of a search for the rare decay of the top quark that results in a charm quark and an SM Higgs boson, t→ch, the existence of which would indicate a nonzero flavor-changing Yukawa coupling of the top quark to the Higgs boson. We place a 95% CL upper limit of 0.56% on ℬ(t→ch).
Search for neutral Higgs bosons in the minimal supersymmetric extension of the Standard Model.
Search for neutral Higgs boson in Z0 decay.
Search for the HH → b b̅ b b̅ process via vector-boson fusion production using proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson pair production via vector-boson fusion (VBF) in the bb̅bb̅ final state is carried out with the ATLAS experiment using 126 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data delivered at √(s) = 13 TeV by the Large Hadron Collider. This search is sensitive to VBF production of additional heavy bosons that may decay into Higgs boson pairs, and in a non-resonant topology it can constrain the quartic coupling between the Higgs bosons and vector bosons. No significant excess relative to the Standard Model expectation is observed, and limits on the production cross-section are set at the 95 % confidence level for a heavy scalar resonance in the context of an extended Higgs sector, and for non-resonant Higgs boson pair production. Interpretation in terms of the coupling between a Higgs boson pair and two vector bosons is also provided: coupling values normalised to the Standard Model expectation of κ_2V < -0.43 and κ_2V > 2.56 are excluded at the 95 % confidence level in data.
Search for a W' boson decaying to a vector-like quark and a top or bottom quark in the all-jets final state. A search for a heavy W' resonance decaying to one B or T vector-like quark and a top or bottom quark, respectively, is presented. The search uses proton-proton collision data collected in 2016 with the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 at √(s) = 13 TeV. Both decay channels result in a final state with a top quark, a Higgs boson, and a b quark, each produced with significant energy. The all-hadronic decays of both the Higgs boson and the top quark are considered. The final-state jets, some of which correspond to merged decay products of a boosted top quark and a Higgs boson, are selected using jet substructure techniques, which help to suppress standard model backgrounds. A W' boson signal would appear as a narrow peak in the invariant mass distribution of these jets. No significant deviation in data with respect to the standard model background predictions is observed. Cross section upper limits on W' boson production in the top quark, Higgs boson, and b quark decay mode are set as a function of the W' mass, for several vector-like quark mass hypotheses. These are the first limits for W' boson production in this decay channel, and cover a range of 0.01 to 0.43 pb in the W' mass range between 1.5 and 4.0 TeV.
Identification techniques for highly boosted W bosons that decay into hadrons. In searches for new physics in the energy regime of the LHC, it is becoming increasingly important to distinguish single-jet objects that originate from the merging of the decay products of W bosons produced with high transverse momenta from jets initiated by single partons. Algorithms are defined to identify such W jets for different signals of interest, using techniques that are also applicable to other decays of bosons to hadrons that result in a single jet, such as those from highly boosted Z and Higgs bosons. The efficiency for tagging W jets is measured in data collected with the CMS detector at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The performance of W tagging in data is compared with predictions from several Monte Carlo simulators.
A New Boson with a Mass of 125 GeV Observed with the CMS Experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. The Higgs boson was postulated nearly five decades ago within the framework of the standard model of particle physics and has been the subject of numerous searches at accelerators around the world. Its discovery would verify the existence of a complex scalar field thought to give mass to three of the carriers of the electroweak force—the W+, W–, and Z0 bosons—as well as to the fundamental quarks and leptons. The CMS Collaboration has observed, with a statistical significance of five standard deviations, a new particle produced in proton-proton collisions at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. The evidence is strongest in the diphoton and four-lepton (electrons and/or muons) final states, which provide the best mass resolution in the CMS detector. The probability of the observed signal being due to a random fluctuation of the background is about 1 in 3 × 106. The new particle is a boson with spin not equal to 1 and has a mass of about 125 giga–electron volts. Although its measured properties are, within the uncertainties of the present data, consistent with those expected of the Higgs boson, more data are needed to elucidate the precise nature of the new particle.
Measurement of the top quark Yukawa coupling from tt̅ kinematic distributions in the lepton+jets final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. Results are presented for an extraction of the top quark Yukawa coupling from top quark-antiquark (tt̅) kinematic distributions in the lepton plus jets final state in proton-proton collisions, based on data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.8 fb^-1. Corrections from weak boson exchange, including Higgs bosons, between the top quarks can produce large distortions of differential distributions near the energy threshold of tt̅ production. Therefore, precise measurements of these distributions are sensitive to the Yukawa coupling. Top quark events are reconstructed with at least three jets in the final state, and a novel technique is introduced to reconstruct the tt̅ system for events with one missing jet. This technique enhances the experimental sensitivity in the low invariant mass region, M_tt̅. The data yields in M_tt̅, the rapidity difference |y_t-y_t̅|, and the number of reconstructed jets are compared with distributions representing different Yukawa couplings. These comparisons are used to measure the ratio of the top quark Yukawa coupling to its standard model predicted value to be 1.07^+0.34_-0.43 with an upper limit of 1.67 at the 95% confidence level.
Flavour Independent h^0A^0 Search and Two Higgs Doublet Model Interpretation of Neutral Higgs Boson Searches at LEP. Upper limits on the cross-section of the pair-production process e+e- -> h0A0 assuming 100% decays into hadrons, are derived from a new search for the h0A0 -> hadrons topology, independent of the hadronic flavour of the decay products. Searches for the neutral Higgs bosons h0 and A0, are used to obtain constraints on the Type II Two Higgs Doublet Model (2HDM(11)) with no CP violation in the Higgs sector and no additional non Standard Model particles besides the five Higgs bosons. The analysis combines LEP1 and LEP2 data collected with the OPAL detctor up to the highest available centre-of-mass energies. The searches are sensitive to the h0, A0 -> qq, gg,tau+tau- and h0 -> A0A0 decay modes of the Higgs bosons. The 2HDM(II) parameter space is explored in a detailed scan. Large regions of the 2HDM(II) parameter space are excluded at the 95% CL in the (mh, mA), (mh, tanb) and (mA, tanb) planes, using both direct neutral Higgs boson searches and indirect limits derived from Standard Model high precision measurements. The region 1 lesssim mh lesssim 55 GeV and 3 lesssim mA lesssim 63 GeV is excluded at 95% CL independently of the choice of the 2HDM(II) parameters.
A search for pair production of new light bosons decaying into muons. A search for the pair production of new light bosons, each decaying into a pair of muons, is performed with the CMS experiment at the LHC, using a dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.7 fb^-1 collected in proton-proton collisions at center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV. No excess is observed in the data relative to standard model background expectation and a model independent upper limit on the product of the cross section, branching fraction, and acceptance is derived. The results are compared with two benchmark models, the first one in the context of the next-to-minimal supersymmetric standard model, and the second one in scenarios containing a hidden sector, including those predicting a non-negligible light boson lifetime.
Fermi-Dirac Correlations in Λ Pairs in Hadronic Z Decays. Two-particle correlations of Lambda Lambda and Anti-Lambda Anti-Lambda pairshave been studied in multihadronic Z decays recorded with the ALEPH detector at LEP in the years from 1992 to 1995. The correlations were measured as a function of the four-momentum difference Q of the pair. A depletion of events is observed in the region Q < 2 GeV which could arise from the effects of Fermi-Dirac statistics. In addition the spin content of the Lambda pair system has been determined. For Q > 2 GeV the fraction of pairs with spin one is consistent with the value of 0.75 expected for a statistical spin mixture, whilst for Q < 2 GeV this fraction is found to be lower. For Lambda Anti-Lambda pairs, where no Fermi-Dirac correlations are expected, the spin one fraction is measured to be consistent with 0.75 over the entire analysed Q range.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons decaying to a pair of tau leptons in pp collisions. A search for neutral Higgs bosons in the minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model (MSSM) decaying to tau-lepton pairs in pp collisions is performed, using events recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The dataset corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 24.6 fb^-1, with 4.9 fb^-1 at 7 TeV and 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV. To enhance the sensitivity to neutral MSSM Higgs bosons, the search includes the case where the Higgs boson is produced in association with a b-quark jet. No excess is observed in the tau-lepton-pair invariant mass spectrum. Exclusion limits are presented in the MSSM parameter space for different benchmark scenarios, m_h^max, m_h^mod+, m_h^mod-, light-stop, light-stau, τ-phobic, and low-m_H. Upper limits on the cross section times branching fraction for gluon fusion and b-quark associated Higgs boson production are also given.
Combined Measurement of the Higgs Boson Mass in pp Collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV with the ATLAS and CMS Experiments. A measurement of the Higgs boson mass is presented based on the combined data samples of the ATLAS and CMS experiments at the CERN LHC in the H →γγ and H → ZZ→ 4ℓ decay channels. The results are obtained from a simultaneous fit to the reconstructed invariant mass peaks in the two channels and for the two experiments. The measured masses from the individual channels and the two experiments are found to be consistent among themselves. The combined measured mass of the Higgs boson is m_H = 125.09±0.21 (stat.)±0.11 (syst.)GeV.
Observation and measurement of Higgs boson decays to WW^∗ with the ATLAS detector. We report the observation of Higgs boson decays to WW^∗ based on an excess over background of 6.1 standard deviations in the dilepton final state, where the Standard Model expectation is 5.8 standard deviations. Evidence for the vector-boson fusion (VBF) production process is obtained with a significance of 3.2 standard deviations. The results are obtained from a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 25 pb^-1 from √(s)=7 and 8 TeV pp collisions recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. For a Higgs boson mass of 125.36 GeV, the ratio of the measured value to the expected value of the total production cross section times branching fraction is 1.09^+0.16_-0.15(stat.)^+0.17_-0.14(syst.). The corresponding ratios for the gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion production mechanisms are 1.02± 0.19 (stat.)^+0.22_-0.18(syst.) and 1.27^+0.44_-0.40(stat.)^+0.30_-0.21(syst.), respectively. At √(s)=8 TeV, the total production cross sections are measured to be σ(gg→ H→ WW^∗) = 4.6±0.9 (stat.) ^+0.8_-0.7 (syst.)pb and σ(VBF H→ WW^∗) = 0.51 ^+0.17_-0.15 (stat.) ^+0.13_-0.08 (syst.)pb. The fiducial cross section is determined for the gluon-fusion process in exclusive final states with zero or one associated jet.
Search for lepton-flavour-violating decays of the Higgs boson. The first direct search for lepton-flavour-violating decays of the recently discovered Higgs boson (H) is described. The search is performed in the H →μτ_e and H →μτ_h channels, where τ_e and τ_h are tau leptons reconstructed in the electronic and hadronic decay channels, respectively. The data sample used in this search was collected in pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV with the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The sensitivity of the search is an order of magnitude better than the existing indirect limits. A slight excess of signal events with a significance of 2.4 standard deviations is observed. The p-value of this excess at M_H = 125 GeV is 0.010. The best fit branching fraction is ℬ(H →μτ )=(0.84^+0.39_-0.37)%. A constraint on the branching fraction, ℬ(H →μτ) less than 1.51% at 95% confidence level, is set. This limit is subsequently used to constrain the μ-τ Yukawa couplings to be less than 3.6× 10^-3.
Search for an exotic decay of the Higgs boson to a pair of light pseudoscalars in the final state with two muons and two b quarks in pp collisions at 13 TeV. A search for exotic decays of the Higgs boson to a pair of light pseudoscalar particles a_1 is performed under the hypothesis that one of the pseudoscalars decays to a pair of opposite sign muons and the other decays to bb̅. Such signatures are predicted in a number of extensions of the standard model (SM), including next-to-minimal supersymmetry and two-Higgs-doublet models with an additional scalar singlet. The results are based on a data set of proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, accumulated with the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC in 2016 at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. No statistically significant excess is observed with respect to the SM backgrounds in the search region for pseudoscalar masses from 20 GeV to half of the Higgs boson mass. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the product of the production cross section and branching fraction, σ_hℬ(h→a_1a_1→μ^+μ^-bb̅), ranging from 5 to 36 fb, depending on the pseudoscalar mass. Corresponding limits on the branching fraction, assuming the SM prediction for σ_h, are (1-6)× 10^-4.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at energies up to √(s) = 209 GeV. A search for charged Higgs bosons produced in pairs is performed with data collected at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 189 to 209 GeV by ALEPH at LEP, corresponding to a total luminosity of 629 invpb. The three final states taunutaunu, taunucs and cscs are considered. No evidence for a signal is found and lower limits are set on the mass M_H+ as a function of the branching fraction B(H to taunu). In the framework of a two-Higgs-doublet model, and assuming B(H+ to taunu + B(H+ to cs) = 1 charged Higgs bosons with masses below 79.3 Gev/c2 are excluded at 95% confidence level independently of the branching ratios.
Search for heavy resonances decaying to a photon and a hadronically decaying Z/W/H boson in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Many extensions of the Standard Model predict new resonances decaying to a Z, W, or Higgs boson and a photon. This paper presents a search for such resonances produced in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV using a dataset with an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider.  The Z/W/H bosons are identified through their decays to hadrons. The data are found to be consistent with the Standard Model expectation in the entire investigated mass range. Upper limits are set on the production cross section times branching fraction for resonance decays to Z/W+γ in the mass range from 1.0 to 6.8 TeV, and for the first time into H+γ in the mass range from 1.0 to 3.0 TeV.
Search for a heavy Higgs boson decaying into a Z boson and another heavy Higgs boson in the ℓℓ bb and ℓℓ WW final states in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy neutral Higgs boson, A, decaying into a Z boson and another heavy Higgs boson, H, is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 from proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The search considers the Z boson decaying into electrons or muons and the H boson into a pair of b-quarks or W bosons. The mass range considered  is 230-800 GeV for the A boson and  130-700 GeV for the H boson. The data are in good agreement with the background predicted by the Standard Model, and therefore 95 % confidence-level upper limits for σ× B(A→ ZH)× B(H→ bb  or  H → WW) are set. The upper limits are in the range 0.0062-0.380 pb for the H→ bb channel and in the range 0.023- 8.9 pb for the H→ WW channel. An interpretation of the results in the context of two-Higgs-doublet models is also given.
A Measurement of the τ^-→μ^-ν_μν_τ Branching Ratio. The tau -> mu nu nu branching ratio has been measured using data collected from 1990 to 1995 by the OPAL detector at the LEP collider. The resulting value of B(tau -> mu nu nu) = 0.1734 +- 0.0009(stat) +- 0.0006(syst) has been used in conjunction with other OPAL measurements to test lepton universality, yielding the coupling constant ratios gmu/ge=1.0005+-0.0044 and gt/ge=1.0031+-0.0048, in good agreement with the Standard Model prediction of unity. A value for the Michel parameter eta = 0.004 +- 0.037 has also been determined and used to find a limit for the mass of the charged Higgs boson mH+- > 1.25 tan beta, in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model.
Limits on Higgs boson masses from combining the data of the four LEP experiments at √(s)≤ 183 GeV.
Tests of the Standard Model and Constraints on New Physics from Measurements of Fermion-Pair Production at 189-209 GeV at LEP. Cross-section and angular distributions for hadronic and lepton-pair final states in e+e- collisions at centre-of-mass energies between 189 GeV and 209 GeV, measured with the OPAL detector at LEP, are presented and compared with the predictions of the Standard Model. The measurements are used to determine the electromagnetic coupling constant alphaem at LEP2 energies. In addition, the results are used together with OPAL measurements at 91-183 GeV within the S-matrix formalism to determine the gamma-Z interference term and to make an almost model-independent measurement of the Z mass. Limits on extensions to the Standard Model described by effective four-fermion contact interactions or the addition of a heavy Z boson are also presented.
Search for a low-mass pseudoscalar Higgs boson produced in association with a b b̅ pair in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search is reported for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson decaying to a pair of τ leptons, produced in association with a b b̅ pair, in the context of two-Higgs-doublet models. The results are based on pp collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. Pseudoscalar boson masses between 25 and 80 GeV are probed. No evidence for a pseudoscalar boson is found and upper limits are set on the production cross section times branching fraction to τ pairs between 7 and 39 pb at the 95% confidence level. This search excludes a pseudoscalar Higgs boson with mass below 80 GeV, in Type II two-Higgs-doublet models with a negative coupling of standard model-like Higgs boson to down-type fermions.
Search for neutral Higgs boson production through the process e+e- → Z^∗ H^0. The results of the searches for neutral Higgs boson production in the process e+e- → Z∗ H^0 are reported, focusing on Higgs boson masses below 70 GeV. The data sample consists of three million hadronic Z decays collected by the L3 experiment at LEP from 1991 through 1994. No signal is found leading to a lower limit on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson of 60.2 GeV at 95% C.L. These results are also interpreted in the framework of the General Two Doublet Model and limits on the non standard Higgs boson production through the process e+e- → Z∗ H^0 are set. A lower limit of 66.7 GeV at 95% C.L. is obtained for the case where the Higgs decays into an invisible final state.
Search for displaced muonic lepton jets from light Higgs boson decay in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for collimated muon pairs produced in the decay of long-lived neutral particles in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV center of mass energy, with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. In a sample of 1.94 fb-1 of collision events collected during 2011, the observed data are consistent with the Standard Model background expectations. Limits on the product of the production cross section and the branching fraction of a Higgs boson decaying to Hidden Valley neutral long-lived particles are derived as a function of the particles’ mean life time.
Measurement of the top quark Yukawa coupling from tt̅ kinematic distributions in the dilepton final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A measurement of the Higgs boson Yukawa coupling to the top quark is presented using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1, recorded with the CMS detector. The coupling strength with respect to the standard model value, Y_t, is determined from kinematic distributions in tt̅ final states containing ee, μμ, or eμ pairs. Variations of the Yukawa coupling strength lead to modified distributions for tt̅ production. In particular, the distributions of the mass of the tt̅ system and the rapidity difference of the top quark and antiquark are sensitive to the value of Y_t. The measurement yields a best fit value of Y_t = 1.16^+0.24_-0.35, bounding Y_t  < 1.54 at a 95% confidence level.
Identification and rejection of pile-up jets at high pseudorapidity with the ATLAS detector. The rejection of forward jets originating from additional proton–proton interactions (pile-up) is crucial for a variety of physics analyses at the LHC, including Standard Model measurements and searches for physics beyond the Standard Model. The identification of such jets is challenging due to the lack of track and vertex information in the pseudorapidity range |η|>2.5. This paper presents a novel strategy for forward pile-up jet tagging that exploits jet shapes and topological jet correlations in pile-up interactions. Measurements of the per-jet tagging efficiency are presented using a data set of 3.2 fb^-1 of proton–proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector. The fraction of pile-up jets rejected in the range 2.5<|η|<4.5 is estimated in simulated events with an average of 22 interactions per bunch-crossing. It increases with jet transverse momentum and, for jets with transverse momentum between 20 and 50 GeV, it ranges between 49% and 67% with an efficiency of 85% for selecting hard-scatter jets. A case study is performed in Higgs boson production via the vector-boson fusion process, showing that these techniques mitigate the background growth due to additional proton–proton interactions, thus enhancing the reach for such signatures.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson in the decay channel H → ZZ → 4 l in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for a Higgs boson in the four-lepton decay channel H to ZZ, with each Z boson decaying to an electron or muon pair, is reported. The search covers Higgs boson mass hypotheses in the range 110 < mH < 600 GeV. The analysis uses data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 inverse femtobarns recorded by the CMS detector in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV from the LHC. Seventy-two events are observed with four-lepton invariant mass m[4 leptons] > 100 GeV (with thirteen below 160 GeV), while 67.1 +/- 6.0 (9.5 +/-1.3) events are expected from background. The four-lepton mass distribution is consistent with the expectation of standard model background production of ZZ pairs. Upper limits at 95% confidence level exclude the standard model Higgs boson in the ranges 134-158 GeV, 180-305 GeV, and 340 -465 GeV. Small excesses of events are observed around masses of 119, 126, and 320 GeV, making the observed limits weaker than expected in the absence of a signal.
Search for the minimal Standard Model Higgs boson.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have searched for the neutral Higgs bosons which are predicted by the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). The data of the four collaborations are statistically combined and examined for their consistency with the background hypothesis and with a possible Higgs boson signal. The combined LEP data show no significant excess of events which would indicate the production of Higgs bosons. The search results are used to set upper bounds on the cross-sections of various Higgs-like event topologies. The results are interpreted within the MSSM in a number of benchmark models, including CP-conserving and CP-violating scenarios. These interpretations lead in all cases to large exclusions in the MSSM parameter space. Absolute limits are set on the parameter tanb and, in some scenarios, on the masses of neutral Higgs bosons.
Combined search for the Standard Model Higgs boson using up to 4.9 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. A combined search for the Standard Model Higgs boson with the ATLAS experiment at the LHC using datasets corresponding to integrated luminosities from 1.04 fb-1 to 4.9 fb-1 of pp collisions collected at sqrt(s) = 7 TeV is presented. The Higgs boson mass ranges 112.9-115.5 GeV, 131-238 GeV and 251-466 GeV are excluded at the 95% confidence level (CL), while the range 124-519 GeV is expected to be excluded in the absence of a signal. An excess of events is observed around mH   126 GeV with a local significance of 3.5 standard deviations (sigma). The local significance of H -> gamma gamma, H -> ZZ(*) -> lll'l' and H -> WW(*) -> lvl'v, the three most sensitive channels in this mass range, are 2.8 sigma, 2.1 sigma and 1.4 sigma, respectively. The global probability for the background to produce such a fluctuation anywhere in the explored Higgs boson mass range 110-600 GeV is estimated to be  1.4% or, equivalently 2.2 sigma.
Measurements of the Total and Differential Higgs Boson Production Cross Sections Combining the H →γγ and H → ZZ ^*→ 4ℓ Decay Channels at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS Detector. Measurements of the total and differential cross sections of Higgs boson production are performed using 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collisions produced by the Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV and recorded by the ATLAS detector. Cross sections are obtained from measured H →γγ and H → ZZ ^*→ 4ℓ event yields, which are combined accounting for detector efficiencies, fiducial acceptances and branching fractions. Differential cross sections are reported as a function of Higgs boson transverse momentum, Higgs boson rapidity, number of jets in the event, and transverse momentum of the leading jet. The total production cross section is determined to be σ_pp → H = 33.0 ± 5.3   ( stat) ± 1.6   ( sys) pb. The measurements are compared to state-of-the-art predictions.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in e^+ e^- interactions at √(s) = 189 GeV. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson is carried out on 176.4 pb^-1 of data collected by the L3 detector at a center-of-mass energy of 189 Ge -0.1em V. The data are consistent with the expectations of Standard Model processes and no evidence of a Higgs signal is observed. Combining the results of this search with those at lower center-of-mass energies, a lower limit on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson of 95.3 Ge -0.1em V is set at the 95% confidence level.
Search for a light charged Higgs boson decaying to c s̅ in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for a light charged Higgs boson, originating from the decay of a top quark and subsequently decaying into a charm quark and a strange antiquark, is presented. The data used in the analysis correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 recorded in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 8 TeV by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The search is performed in the process t t̅→ W^± b H^∓b̅, where the W boson decays to a lepton (electron or muon) and a neutrino. The decays lead to a final state comprising an isolated lepton, at least four jets and large missing transverse energy. No significant deviation is observed in the data with respect to the standard model predictions, and model-independent upper limits are set on the branching fraction B (  t → H^+ b  ), ranging from 1.2 to 6.5% for a charged Higgs boson with mass between 90 and 160 GeV, under the assumption that B(  H^+→ c s̅ ) = 100%.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have collected a total of 2461 pb-1 of e+e- collision data at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209 GeV. The data are used to search for the Standard Model Higgs boson. The search results of the four collaborations are combined and examined in a likelihood test for their consistency with two hypotheses: the background hypothesis and the signal plus background hypothesis. The corresponding confidences have been computed as functions of the hypothetical Higgs boson mass. A lower bound of 114.4 GeV/c2 is established, at the 95% confidence level, on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson. The LEP data are also used to set upper bounds on the HZZ coupling for various assumptions concerning the decay of the Higgs boson.
W Boson Polarisation at LEP2. Elements of the spin density matrix for W bosons in e+e- -> W+W- -> qqln events are measured from data recorded by the OPAL detector at LEP. This information is used calculate polarised differential cross-sections and to search for CP-violating effects. Results are presented for W bosons produced in e+e- collisions with centre-of-mass energies between 183 GeV and 209 GeV. The average fraction of W bosons that are longitudinally polarised is found to be (23.9 +- 2.1 +- 1.1)% compared to a Standard Model prediction of (23.9 +- 0.1)%. All results are consistent with CP conservation.
Evidence for associated production of a Higgs boson with a top quark pair in final states with electrons, muons, and hadronically decaying τ leptons at √(s) = 13 TeV. Results of a search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top quark pair (ttH) in final states with electrons, muons, and hadronically decaying τ leptons are presented. The analyzed data set corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 recorded in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV by the CMS experiment in 2016. The sensitivity of the search is improved by using matrix element and machine learning methods to separate the signal from backgrounds. The measured signal rate amounts to 1.23 ^+0.45_-0.43 times the production rate expected in the standard model, with an observed (expected) significance of 3.2σ (2.8σ), which represents evidence for ttH production in those final states. An upper limit on the signal rate of 2.1 times the standard model production rate is set at 95% confidence level.
Test of CP invariance in vector-boson fusion production of the Higgs  boson in the H→ττ channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A test of CP invariance in Higgs boson production via vector-boson fusion is performed in the H→ττ decay channel. This test uses the Optimal Observable method and is carried out using 36.1 fb^-1 of √(s) = 13 TeV proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. Contributions from CP-violating interactions between the Higgs boson and electroweak gauge bosons are described by an effective field theory,  in which the parameter d̃ governs the strength of CP violation. No sign of CP violation is observed in the distributions of the Optimal Observable, and d̃ is constrained to the interval [-0.090, 0.035] at the 68% confidence level (CL), compared to an expected interval of d̃∈ [-0.035,0.033] based upon the Standard Model prediction. No constraints can be set on d̃ at 95% CL, while an expected 95% CL interval of d̃∈ [-0.21,0.15] for the Standard Model hypothesis was expected.
Search for chargino and neutralino production in final states with a Higgs boson and missing transverse momentum at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is conducted for the electroweak pair production of a chargino and a neutralino pp →χ̃^±_1 χ̃^0_2, where the chargino decays into the lightest neutralino and a W boson, χ̃^±_1 →χ̃^0_1 W^±, while the neutralino decays into the lightest neutralino and a Standard Model-like 125 GeV Higgs boson, χ̃^0_2 →χ̃^0_1 h. Fully hadronic, semileptonic, diphoton, and multilepton (electrons, muons) final states with missing transverse momentum are considered in this search. Higgs bosons in the final state are identified by either two jets originating from bottom quarks (h → bb̅), two photons (h →γγ), or leptons from the decay modes h → WW, h → ZZ or h →ττ. The analysis is based on 36.1 fb^-1 of √(s) = 13 TeV proton-proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. Observations are consistent with the Standard Model expectations, and 95% confidence-level limits of up to 680 GeV in χ̃^±_1/χ̃^0_2 mass are set in the context of a simplified supersymmetric model.
Measurement of the Higgs boson production rate in association with top quarks in final states with electrons, muons, and hadronically decaying tau leptons at √(s) = 13 TeV. The rate for Higgs (H) bosons production in association with either one (tH) or two (tt̅H) top quarks is measured in final states containing multiple electrons, muons, or tau leptons decaying to hadrons and a neutrino, using proton-proton collisions recorded at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV by the CMS experiment. The analyzed data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. The analysis is aimed at events that contain H→WW, H→ττ, or H→ZZ decays and each of the top quark(s) decays either to lepton+jets or all-jet channels. Sensitivity to signal is maximized by including ten signatures in the analysis, depending on the lepton multiplicity. The separation among the tH, the tt̅H, and the backgrounds is enhanced through machine-learning techniques and matrix-element methods. The measured production rates for the tt̅H and tH signals correspond to 0.92 ± 0.19 (stat) ^+0.17_-0.13 (syst) and 5.7 ± 2.7 (stat) ± 3.0 (syst) of their respective standard model (SM) expectations. The corresponding observed (expected) significance amounts to 4.7 (5.2) standard deviations for tt̅H, and to 1.4 (0.3) for tH production. Assuming that the Higgs boson coupling to the tau lepton is equal in strength to its expectation in the SM, the coupling y_t of the Higgs boson to the top quark divided by its SM expectation, κ_t=y_t/y_t^SM, is constrained to be within -0.9 < κ_t < -0.7 or 0.7 < κ_t < 1.1, at 95% confidence level. This result is the most sensitive measurement of the tt̅H production rate to date.
Evidence for Higgs boson decay to a pair of muons. Evidence for Higgs boson decay to a pair of muons is presented. This result combines searches in four exclusive categories targeting the production of the Higgs boson via gluon fusion, via vector boson fusion, in association with a vector boson, and in association with a top quark-antiquark pair. The analysis is performed using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1 , recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC. An excess of events over the background expectation is observed in data with a significance of 3.0 standard deviations, where the expectation for the standard model (SM) Higgs boson with mass of 125.38 GeV is 2.5. The combination of this result with that from data recorded at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 and 19.7 fb^-1, respectively, increases both the expected and observed significances by 1%. The measured signal strength, relative to the SM prediction, is 1.19^+0.40_-0.39 (stat)^+0.15_-0.14 (syst). This result constitutes the first evidence for the decay of the Higgs boson to second generation fermions and is the most precise measurement of the Higgs boson coupling to muons reported to date.
Measurements of Higgs boson production and couplings in the four-lepton channel in pp collisions at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The final ATLAS Run 1 measurements of Higgs boson production and couplings in the decay channel H→ ZZ^*→ℓ^+ℓ^-ℓ^'+ℓ^'-, where ℓ,ℓ^'=e or μ, are presented. These measurements were performed using pp collision data corresponding to integrated luminosities of 4.5 fb^-1 and 20.3 fb^-1 at center-of-mass energies of 7 TeV and 8 TeV, respectively, recorded with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ signal is observed with a significance of 8.1 standard deviations at 125.36 GeV, the combined ATLAS measurement of the Higgs boson mass from the H→γγ and H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ channels. The production rate relative to the Standard Model expectation, the signal strength, is measured in four different production categories in the H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ channel. The measured signal strength, at this mass, and with all categories combined, is 1.44 ^+0.40_-0.33. The signal strength for Higgs boson production in gluon fusion or in association with tt̅ or bb̅ pairs is found to be 1.7 ^+0.5_-0.4, while the signal strength for vector-boson fusion combined with WH/ZH associated production is found to be 0.3 ^+1.6_-0.9.
Search for the Higgs boson decaying to two muons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for the Higgs boson decaying to two oppositely charged muons is presented using data recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Data are found to be compatible with the predicted background. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 125.09 GeV, the 95% confidence level observed (expected) upper limit on the production cross section times branching fraction to a pair of muons is found to be 2.95 (2.45) times the standard model expectation. In combination with data recorded at center-of-mass energies √(s)= 7 and 8 TeV, the observed (expected) upper limit improves to 2.92 (2.16) times the standard model value. This corresponds to an upper limit on the standard model Higgs boson branching fraction to muons of 6.4 × 10^-4.
Search for high-mass dilepton resonances in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider is used to search for high-mass resonances decaying to dielectron or dimuon final states. Results are presented from an analysis of proton–proton (pp) collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 in the dielectron channel and 20.5 fb^-1 in the dimuon channel. A narrow resonance with Standard Model Z couplings to fermions is excluded at 95% confidence level for masses less than 2.79 TeV in the dielectron channel, 2.53 TeV in the dimuon channel, and  2.90 TeV in the two channels combined.  Limits on other model interpretations are also presented, including a grand-unification model based on the E_6 gauge group, Z^* bosons, Minimal Z' Models,  a spin-2 graviton excitation from Randall–Sundrum models, quantum black holes and a Minimal Walking Technicolor model with a composite Higgs boson.
Search for a standard model-like Higgs boson in the μ^+μ^- and e^+e^- decay channels at the LHC. A search is presented for a standard model-like Higgs boson decaying to the μ^+μ^- or e^+e^- final states based on proton-proton collisions recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC. The data correspond to integrated luminosities of 5.0fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV and 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV for the μ^+μ^- search, and of 19.7 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV for the e^+e^- search. To enhance the sensitivity of the search, events are categorized by topologies according to production process and dilepton invariant mass resolution. Upper limits on the production cross section times branching fraction at the 95% confidence level are reported for Higgs boson masses in the range from 120 to 150GeV. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 125GeV decaying to μ^+μ^-, the observed (expected) upper limit on the production rate is found to be 7.4 (6.5^+2.8_-1.9) times the standard model value. This corresponds to an upper limit on the branching fraction of 0.0016. Similarly, for e^+e^-, an upper limit of 0.0019 is placed on the branching fraction, which is ≈3.7×10^5 times the standard model value. These results, together with recent evidence of the 125GeV boson coupling to τ-leptons with a larger branching fraction consistent with the standard model, show for the first time that the leptonic couplings of the new boson are not flavour-universal.
Measurements of the Higgs boson production and decay rates and coupling strengths using pp collision data at √(s)=7 and 8 TeV in the ATLAS experiment. Combined analyses of the Higgs boson production and decay rates as well as its coupling strengths to vector bosons and fermions are presented. The combinations include the results of the analyses of the H→γγ,  ZZ^*,  WW^*,  Zγ,  bb̅, ττ and μμ decay modes, and the constraints on the associated production with a pair of top quarks and on the off-shell coupling strengths of the Higgs boson. The results are based on the LHC proton–proton collision datasets, with integrated luminosities of up to 4.7 fb^-1 at √(s)=7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 at √(s)=8 TeV, recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2011 and 2012. Combining all production modes and decay channels, the measured signal yield, normalised to the Standard Model expectation, is 1.18^+0.15_-0.14. The data provide unequivocal confirmation of the gluon fusion production of the Higgs boson, strong evidence of vector-boson fusion production and support Standard Model assumptions of production in association with vector bosons or a pair of top quarks. The observed Higgs boson production and decay rates are interpreted in a leading-order coupling framework, exploring a wide range of benchmark coupling models both with and without assumptions on the Higgs boson width and on the Standard Model particle content in loop processes. Generic Higgs boson coupling models that allow measurement of coupling strengths to μ, τ leptons, b, t quarks and W, Z bosons, or ratios of these coupling strengths, are presented. The observed data are found to be compatible with the Standard Model expectations for a Higgs boson at a mass of 125.36 GeV for all models considered.
Search for gauge mediated SUSY breaking topologies in e^+ e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. A total of 628 of data collected with the ALEPH detector at centre-of-mass energies from 189 to 209 GeV is analysed in the search for gauge mediated SUSY breaking (GMSB) topologies. These topologies include two acoplanar photons, non-pointing single photons, acoplanar leptons, large impact parameter leptons, detached slepton decay vertices, heavy stable charged sleptons and multi-leptons plus missing energy final states. No evidence is found for new phenomena, and lower limits on masses of supersymmetric particles are derived. A scan of a minimal GMSB parameter space is performed and lower limits are set for the next-to-lightest supersymmetric particle (NLSP) mass at 54 and for the mass scale parameter Λ at 10, independently of the NLSP lifetime. Including the results from the neutral Higgs boson searches, a NLSP mass limit of 77 is obtained and values of Λ up to 16 are excluded.
Evidence for the Higgs boson decay to a bottom quark-antiquark pair. A search for the standard model (SM) Higgs boson (H) decaying to bb when produced in association with an electroweak vector boson is reported for the following processes: Z(νν)H, W(μν)H, W(eν)H, Z(μμ)H, and Z(ee)H. The search is performed in data samples corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 at √(s)= 13 TeV recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC during Run 2 in 2016. An excess of events is observed in data compared to the expectation in the absence of a H→bb signal. The significance of this excess is 3.3 standard deviations, where the expectation from SM Higgs boson production is 2.8. The signal strength corresponding to this excess, relative to that of the SM Higgs boson production, is 1.2 ± 0.4. When combined with the Run 1 measurement of the same processes, the signal significance is 3.8 standard deviations with 3.8 expected. The corresponding signal strength, relative to that of the SM Higgs boson, is 1.06 ^+0.31_-0.29.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the diphoton decay channel with 4.9 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV with ATLAS. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson is performed in the diphoton decay channel. The data used corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 fb-1 collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of sqrt(s) = 7 TeV. In the diphoton mass range 110-150 GeV, the largest excess with respect to the background-only hypothesis is observed at 126.5 GeV, with a local significance of 2.8 standard deviations. Taking the look-elsewhere effect into account in the range 110-150 GeV, this significance becomes 1.5 standard deviations. The Standard Model Higgs boson is excluded at 95% confidence level in the mass ranges of 113-115 GeV and 134.5-136 GeV.

Search for neutral Higgs bosons of the minimal supersymmetric standard model in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the neutral Higgs bosons predicted by the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM) is reported. The analysis is performed on data from proton–proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The samples used for this search were collected in 2012 and correspond to integrated luminosities in the range 19.5 - 20.3 fb^-1. The MSSM Higgs bosons are searched for in the ττ final state. No significant excess over the expected background is observed, and exclusion limits are derived for the production cross section times branching fraction of a scalar particle as a function of its mass. The results are also interpreted in the MSSM parameter space for various benchmark scenarios.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the diphoton decay channel with 4.9 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV with ATLAS. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson is performed in the diphoton decay channel. The data used corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 fb-1 collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of sqrt(s) = 7 TeV. In the diphoton mass range 110-150 GeV, the largest excess with respect to the background-only hypothesis is observed at 126.5 GeV, with a local significance of 2.8 standard deviations. Taking the look-elsewhere effect into account in the range 110-150 GeV, this significance becomes 1.5 standard deviations. The Standard Model Higgs boson is excluded at 95% confidence level in the mass ranges of 113-115 GeV and 134.5-136 GeV.
Measurements of Cross Sections and Forward-Backward Asymmetries at the Z Resonance and Determination of Electroweak Parameters. We report on measurements of hadronic and leptonic cross sections and leptonic forward-backward asymmetries performed with the L3 detector in the years 1993-95.A total luminosity of 103 pb^-1 was collected at centre-of-mass energies √(s)≈ m_Z and √(s)≈ m_Z± 1.8 GeVwhich corresponds to 2.5 million hadronic and 245 thousand leptonic events selected.These data lead to a significantly improved determination of Z parameters.From the total cross sections, combined with our measurements in 1990-92,we obtain the final results:%%% m_Z = 91189.8 ±3.1 MeV , Γ_Z = 2502.4 ±4.2 MeV ,
Search for neutral Higgs bosons from supersymmetry in Z decays.
Search for the neutral Higgs bosons of the minimal supersymmetric Standard Model from Z0 decays.
Standalone Vertex Finding in the ATLAS Muon Spectrometer. A dedicated reconstruction algorithm to find decay vertices in the ATLAS muon spectrometer is presented. The algorithm searches the region just upstream of or inside the muon spectrometer volume for multi-particle vertices that originate from the decay of particles with long decay paths. The performance of the algorithm is evaluated using both a sample of simulated Higgs boson events, in which the Higgs boson decays to long-lived neutral particles that in turn decay to b bbar final states, and pp collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC during 2011.
Search for bottom-type, vector-like quark pair production in a fully hadronic final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is described for the production of a pair of bottom-type vector-like quarks (VLQs), each decaying into a b or b̅ quark and either a Higgs or a Z boson, with a mass greater than 1000 GeV. The analysis is based on data from proton-proton collisions at a 13 TeV center-of-mass energy recorded at the CERN LHC, corresponding to a total integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. As the predominant decay modes of the Higgs and Z bosons are to a pair of quarks, the analysis focuses on final states consisting of jets resulting from the six quarks produced in the events. Since the two jets produced in the decay of a highly Lorentz-boosted Higgs or Z boson can merge to form a single jet, nine independent analyses are performed, categorized by the number of observed jets and the reconstructed event mode. No signal in excess of the expected background is observed. Lower limits are set on the VLQ mass at 95% confidence level equal to 1570 GeV in the case where the VLQ decays exclusively to a b quark and a Higgs boson, 1390 GeV for when it decays exclusively to a b quark and a Z boson, and 1450 GeV for when it decays equally in these two modes. These limits represent significant improvements over the previously published VLQ limits.
Search for Invisibly Decaying Higgs Bosons with Large Decay Width Using the OPAL Detector at LEP. This paper describes a topological search for an invisibly decaying Higgs boson,H, produced via the Bjorken process (e+e- -> HZ). The analysis is based on data recorded using the OPAL detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies from 183 to 209 GeV corresponding to a total integrated luminosity of 629pb-1. In the analysis only hadronic decays of the Z boson are considered. A scan over Higgs boson masses from 1 to 120 GeV and decay widths from 1 to 3000 GeV revealed no indication for a signal in the data. From a likelihood ratio of expected signal and Standard Model background we determine upper limits on cross-section times branching ratio to an invisible final state. For moderate Higgs boson decay widths, these range from about 0.07pb Mh = 60GeV) to 0.57pb (Mh = 114GeV). For decay widths above 200GeV the upper limits are of the order of 0.15pb. The results can be interpreted in general scenarios predicting a large invisible decay width of the Higgs boson. As an example we interpret the results in the so-called stealthy Higgs scenario. The limits from this analysis exclude a large part of the parameter range of this scenario experimentally accessible at LEP2.
Identification and rejection of pile-up jets at high pseudorapidity with the ATLAS detector. The rejection of forward jets originating from additional proton–proton interactions (pile-up) is crucial for a variety of physics analyses at the LHC, including Standard Model measurements and searches for physics beyond the Standard Model. The identification of such jets is challenging due to the lack of track and vertex information in the pseudorapidity range |η|>2.5. This paper presents a novel strategy for forward pile-up jet tagging that exploits jet shapes and topological jet correlations in pile-up interactions. Measurements of the per-jet tagging efficiency are presented using a data set of 3.2 fb^-1 of proton–proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector. The fraction of pile-up jets rejected in the range 2.5<|η|<4.5 is estimated in simulated events with an average of 22 interactions per bunch-crossing. It increases with jet transverse momentum and, for jets with transverse momentum between 20 and 50 GeV, it ranges between 49% and 67% with an efficiency of 85% for selecting hard-scatter jets. A case study is performed in Higgs boson production via the vector-boson fusion process, showing that these techniques mitigate the background growth due to additional proton–proton interactions, thus enhancing the reach for such signatures.
Evidence for the Higgs-boson Yukawa coupling to tau leptons with the ATLAS detector. Results of a search for H →ττ decays are presented, based on the full set of proton–proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC during 2011 and 2012. The data correspond to integrated luminosities of 4.5 fb^-1 and 20.3 fb^-1 at centre-of-mass energies of √(s) = 7 TeV and √(s) = 8 TeV respectively. All combinations of leptonic (τ→ℓνν̅ with ℓ = e, μ) and hadronic (τ→hadronsν) tau decays are considered. An excess of events over the expected background from other Standard Model processes is found with an observed (expected) significance of 4.5 (3.4) standard deviations. This excess provides evidence for the direct coupling of the recently discovered Higgs boson to fermions. The measured signal strength, normalised to the Standard Model expectation, of μ = 1.43 ^+0.43_-0.37 is consistent with the predicted Yukawa coupling strength in the Standard Model.
Inclusive search for a highly boosted Higgs boson decaying to a bottom quark-antiquark pair. An inclusive search for the standard model Higgs boson (H) produced with large transverse momentum (p_T) and decaying to a bottom quark-antiquark pair (bb) is performed using a data set of pp collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV collected with the CMS experiment at the LHC. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. A highly Lorentz-boosted Higgs boson decaying to bb is reconstructed as a single, large radius jet and is identified using jet substructure and dedicated b tagging techniques. The method is validated with Z→bb decays. The Z→bb process is observed for the first time in the single-jet topology with a local significance of 5.1 standard deviations (5.8 expected). For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, an excess of events above the expected background is observed (expected) with a local significance of 1.5 (0.7) standard deviations. The measured cross section times branching fraction for production via gluon fusion of H→bb with p_T >450 GeV and in the pseudorapidity range -2.5 < η < 2.5 is 74 ± 48 (stat) _-10^+17 (syst) fb, which is consistent within uncertainties with the standard model prediction.
Search for a Standard Model Higgs boson in the H → ZZ → l^+l^-νν decay channel with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy Standard Model Higgs boson decaying via H->ZZ->llnunu, where l=e,mu, is presented. It is based on proton-proton collision data at sqrt(s)=7 TeV, collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in the first half of 2011 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 1.04 fb^-1. The data are compared to the expected Standard Model backgrounds. The data and the combined background expectations are found to be in agreement and upper limits are placed on the Higgs boson production cross section over the entire mass window considered; in particular the production of a Standard Model Higgs boson is excluded in the region 340 < m_H < 450 GeV at the 95% confidence level.
Search for associated production of a Higgs boson and a single top quark in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for the production of a Higgs boson in association with a single top quark, based on data collected in 2016 by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, which corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 . The production cross section for this process is highly sensitive to the absolute values of the top quark Yukawa coupling, y_t, the Higgs boson coupling to vector bosons, g_HVV, and, uniquely, to their relative sign. Analyses using multilepton signatures, targeting H→WW, H→ττ, and H→ZZ decay modes, and signatures with a single lepton and a bb̅ pair, targeting the H→bb̅ decay, are combined with a reinterpretation of a measurement in the H→γγ channel to constrain y_t. For a standard model-like value of g_HVV, the data favor positive values of y_t and exclude values of y_t below about -0.9 y_t ^SM.
Search for ttH production in the all-jet final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is presented for the associated production of a Higgs boson with a top quark pair in the all-jet final state. Events containing seven or more jets are selected from a sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. To separate the ttH signal from the irreducible tt+bb background, the analysis assigns leading order matrix element signal and background probability densities to each event. A likelihood-ratio statistic based on these probability densities is used to extract the signal. The results are provided in terms of an observed ttH signal strength relative to the standard model production cross section μ=σ/σ_SM, assuming a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV. The best fit value is μ̂ = 0.9 ± 0.7 (stat) ± 1.3 (syst) = 0.9 ± 1.5 (tot), and the observed and expected upper limits are, respectively, μ < 3.8 and < 3.1 at 95% confidence levels.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the WW^(*)WW^(*) decay channel using ATLAS data recorded at √(s)=13 TeV. A search for a pair of neutral, scalar bosons with each decaying into two W bosons is presented using 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. This search uses three production models: non-resonant and resonant Higgs boson pair production and resonant production of a pair of heavy scalar particles. Three final states, classified by the number of leptons, are analysed: two same-sign leptons, three leptons, and four leptons. No significant excess over the expected Standard Model backgrounds is observed. An observed (expected) 95% confidence-level upper limit of 160 (120) times the Standard Model prediction of non-resonant Higgs pair production cross-section is set from a combined analysis of the three final states. Upper limits are set on the production cross-section times branching ratio of a heavy scalar X decaying into a Higgs boson pair in the mass range of 260 GeV ≤ m_X ≤ 500 GeV and the observed (expected) limits range from 9.3 (10) pb to 2.8 (2.6) pb. Upper limits are set on the production cross-section times branching ratio of a heavy scalar X decaying into a pair of heavy scalars S for mass ranges of 280 GeV ≤ m_X ≤ 340 GeV and 135 GeV ≤ m_S ≤ 165 GeV and the observed (expected) limits range from 2.5 (2.5) pb to 0.16 (0.17) pb.
Search for dark matter produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to a pair of bottom quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for dark matter produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to a pair of bottom quarks is performed in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. The analyzed data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The signal is characterized by a large missing transverse momentum recoiling against a bottom quark-antiquark system that has a large Lorentz boost. The number of events observed in the data is consistent with the standard model background prediction. Results are interpreted in terms of limits both on parameters of the type-2 two-Higgs doublet model extended by an additional light pseudoscalar boson a (2HDM+a) and on parameters of a baryonic Z' simplified model. For the baryonic Z' model, the presented results constitute the most stringent constraints to date. The 2HDM+a model is tested experimentally for the first time.
Search for resonances in diphoton events at √(s)=13 TeV  with the ATLAS detector. Searches for new resonances decaying into two photons in the ATLAS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider are described. The analysis is based on proton–proton collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 3.2 fb^-1 at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2015. Two searches are performed, one targeted at a spin-2 particle of mass larger than 500 GeV, using Randall–Sundrum graviton states as a benchmark model, and one optimized for a spin-0 particle of mass larger than 200 GeV. Varying both the mass and the decay width, the most significant deviation from the background-only hypothesis is observed at a diphoton invariant mass around 750 GeV with local significances of 3.8 and 3.9 standard deviations in the searches optimized for a spin-2 and spin-0 particle, respectively. The global significances are estimated to be 2.1 standard deviations for both analyses. The consistency between the data collected at 13 TeV and 8 TeV is also evaluated. Limits on the production cross section times branching ratio to two photons for the two  resonance types are reported.
Search for supersymmetry with Higgs boson to diphoton decays using the razor variables at √(s) = 13 TeV. An inclusive search for anomalous Higgs boson production in the diphoton decay channel and in association with at least one jet is presented, using LHC proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The razor variables M_R and R^2, as well as the momentum and mass resolution of the diphoton system, are used to categorize events into different search regions. The search result is interpreted in the context of strong and electroweak production of supersymmetric particles. We exclude bottom squark pair-production with masses below 450 GeV for bottom squarks decaying to a bottom quark, a Higgs boson, and the lightest supersymmetric particle (LSP) for LSP masses below 250 GeV. For wino-like chargino-neutralino production, we exclude charginos with mass below 170 GeV for LSP masses below 25 GeV. In the GMSB scenario, we exclude charginos with mass below 205 GeV for neutralinos decaying to a Higgs boson and a goldstino LSP with 100% branching fraction.
Search for a low mass neutral Higgs boson in Z0 decay.
Search for a pseudoscalar boson decaying into a Z boson and the 125 GeV Higgs boson in ℓ^+ ℓ^- b b̅ final states. Results are reported on a search for decays of a pseudoscalar A boson into a Z boson and a light scalar h boson, where the Z boson decays into a pair of oppositely-charged electrons or muons, and the h boson decays into b b̅. The search is based on data from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 8 TeV collected with the CMS detector, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The h boson is assumed to be the recently discovered standard model-like Higgs boson with a mass of 125 GeV. With no evidence for signal, upper limits are obtained on the product of the production cross section and the branching fraction of the A boson in the Zh channel. Results are also interpreted in the context of two Higgs doublet models.
Measurement of fiducial differential cross sections of gluon-fusion production of Higgs bosons decaying to WW^∗→ eνμν with the ATLAS detector at √(s)=8 TeV. This paper describes a measurement of fiducial and differential cross sections of gluon-fusion Higgs boson production in the H→ WW^∗→ eνμν channel, using 20.3 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data. The data were produced at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV at the CERN Large Hadron Collider and recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2012.  Cross sections are measured from the observed H→ WW^∗→ eνμν signal yield in categories distinguished by the number of associated jets. The total cross section is measured in a fiducial region defined by the kinematic properties of the charged leptons and neutrinos. Differential cross sections are reported as a function of the number of jets, the Higgs boson transverse momentum, the dilepton rapidity, and the transverse momentum of the leading jet.  The jet-veto efficiency, or fraction of events with no jets above a given transverse momentum threshold, is also reported.  All measurements are compared to QCD predictions from Monte Carlo generators and fixed-order calculations, and are in agreement with the Standard Model predictions.
A Particle Consistent with the Higgs Boson Observed with the ATLAS Detector at the Large Hadron Collider. Nearly 50 years ago, theoretical physicists proposed that a field permeates the universe and gives energy to the vacuum. This field was required to explain why some, but not all, fundamental particles have mass. Numerous precision measurements during recent decades have provided indirect support for the existence of this field, but one crucial prediction of this theory has remained unconfirmed despite 30 years of experimental searches: the existence of a massive particle, the standard model Higgs boson. The ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN has now observed the production of a new particle with a mass of 126 giga–electron volts and decay signatures consistent with those expected for the Higgs particle. This result is strong support for the standard model of particle physics, including the presence of this vacuum field. The existence and properties of the newly discovered particle may also have consequences beyond the standard model itself.
Measurements of the Higgs boson inclusive and differential fiducial  cross sections in the 4ℓ decay channel at √(s) = 13 TeV. Inclusive and differential fiducial cross sections of the Higgs boson are measured in the H → ZZ^*→ 4ℓ (ℓ = e,μ) decay channel. The results are based on proton-proton collision data produced at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and recorded by the ATLAS detector from 2015 to 2018, equivalent to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1. The inclusive fiducial cross section for the H → ZZ^*→ 4ℓ process is measured to be σ_fid = 3.28 ± 0.32 fb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction of σ_fid, SM = 3.41 ± 0.18 fb. Differential fiducial cross sections are measured for a variety of observables which are sensitive to the production and decay of the Higgs boson. All measurements are in agreement with the Standard Model predictions. The results are used to constrain anomalous Higgs boson interactions with Standard Model particles.
Search for charged Higgs bosons decaying via H^±→τ^±ν_τ in the τ+jets and τ+lepton final states with 36 fb^-1 of pp collision data recorded at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS experiment. Charged Higgs bosons produced either in top-quark decays or in association with a top-quark, subsequently decaying via H^±→τ^±ν_τ, are searched for in 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s)=13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector. Depending on whether the top-quark produced together with H^± decays hadronically or leptonically, the search targets τ+jets and τ+lepton final states, in both cases with a hadronically decaying τ-lepton. No evidence of a charged Higgs boson is found. For the mass range of m_H^± = 90-2000 GeV, upper limits at the 95% confidence level are set on the production cross-section of the charged Higgs boson times the branching fraction B(H^±→τ^±ν_τ) in the range 4.2-0.0025 pb. In the mass range 90-160 GeV, assuming the Standard Model cross-section for tt production, this corresponds to upper limits between 0.25% and 0.031% for the branching fraction B(t→ bH^±) ×B(H^±→τ^±ν_τ).
Search for dark matter produced in association with a single top quark in √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. This paper presents a search for dark matter in the context of a two-Higgs-doublet model together with an additional pseudoscalar mediator, a, which decays into the dark-matter particles. Processes where the pseudoscalar mediator is produced in association with a single top quark in the 2HDM+a model are explored for the first time at the LHC. Several final states which include either one or two charged leptons (electrons or muons) and a significant amount of missing transverse momentum are considered. The analysis is based on proton-proton collision data collected with the ATLAS experiment at √(s) = 13 TeV during LHC Run 2 (2015-2018), corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1. No significant excess above the Standard Model predictions is found. The results are expressed as 95 % confidence-level limits on the parameters of the signal models considered.
Search for charged Higgs bosons decaying into top and bottom quarks at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for charged Higgs bosons heavier than the top quark and decaying via H^+ → tb is presented. The data analysed corresponds to 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV and was recorded with the ATLAS detector at the LHC in 2015 and 2016. The production of a charged Higgs boson in association with a top quark and a bottom quark, pp → tb H^+, is explored in the mass range from m_H^+ = 200 to 2000 GeV using multi-jet final states with one or two electrons or muons. Events are categorised according to the multiplicity of jets and how likely these are to have originated from hadronisation of a bottom quark. Multivariate techniques are used to discriminate between signal and background events. No significant excess above the background-only hypothesis is observed and exclusion limits are derived for the production cross-section times branching fraction of a charged Higgs boson as a function of its mass, which range from 2.9 pb at m_H^+ = 200 GeV to 0.070 pb at m_H^+ = 2000 GeV. The results are interpreted in two benchmark scenarios of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model.
Search for Higgs bosons produced via vector-boson fusion and decaying into bottom quark pairs in √(s) = 13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search for the bb̅ decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson produced through vector-boson fusion is presented. Three mutually exclusive channels are considered: two all-hadronic channels and a photon-associated channel. Results are reported from the analysis of up to 30.6 fb^-1 of pp data at √(s) = 13 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The measured signal strength relative to the Standard Model prediction from the combined analysis is 2.5^+1.4_-1.3 for inclusive Higgs boson production and 3.0^+1.7_-1.6 for vector-boson fusion production only.
Search for the neutral Higgs boson.
Precision electroweak measurements on the Z resonance. We report on the final electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the Z resonance by the experiments operating at the electron-positron colliders SLC and LEP. The data consist of 17 million Z decays accumulated by the ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL experiments at LEP, and 600 thousand Z decays by the SLD experiment using a polarised beam at SLC. The measurements include cross-sections, forward-backward asymmetries and polarised asymmetries. The mass and width of the Z boson, and , and its couplings to fermions, for example the ρ parameter and the effective electroweak mixing angle, are precisely measured. The number of light neutrino species is determined to be 2.9840+/-0.0082. The results are compared to the predictions of the Standard Model. Electroweak radiative corrections beyond the running of the QED and QCD coupling constants are observed with a significance of five standard deviations, and in agreement with the Standard Model. Of the many Z-pole measurements, the forward-backward asymmetry in b-quark production shows the largest difference with respect to its Standard Model expectation, at the level of 2.8 standard deviations. Through radiative corrections evaluated in the framework of the Standard Model, the masses of the top quark and the W Boson are predicted. These indirect constraints are compared to the direct measurements, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model. Using in addition the direct measurements of and , the mass of the as yet unobserved Standard Model Higgs boson is predicted.
Observation of H → bb̅ decays and VH production with the ATLAS detector. A search for the decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson into a bb̅ pair when produced in association with a W or Z boson is performed with the ATLAS detector. The data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 79.8 fb^-1 were collected in proton-proton collisions during Run 2 of the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, an excess of events over the expected background from other Standard Model processes is found with an observed (expected) significance of 4.9 (4.3) standard deviations. A combination with the results from other searches in Run 1 and in Run 2 for the Higgs boson in the bb̅ decay mode is performed, which yields an observed (expected) significance of 5.4 (5.5) standard deviations, thus providing direct observation of the Higgs boson decay into b-quarks. The ratio of the measured event yield for a Higgs boson decaying into bb̅ to the Standard Model expectation is 1.01 ± 0.12 (stat.) ^+0.16_-0.15(syst.). Additionally, a combination of Run 2 results searching for the Higgs boson produced in association with a vector boson yields an observed (expected) significance of 5.3 (4.8) standard deviations.
Simultaneous measurements of the tt̅, W^+W^-, and Z/γ^*→ττ production cross-sections in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Simultaneous measurements of the tt̅, W^+W^-, and Z/γ^*→ττ production cross-sections using an integrated luminosity of 4.6 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC are presented. Events are selected with two high transverse momentum leptons consisting of an oppositely charged electron and muon pair. The three processes are separated using the distributions of the missing transverse momentum of events with zero and greater than zero jet multiplicities. Measurements of the fiducial cross-section are presented along with results that quantify for the first time the underlying correlations in the predicted and measured cross-sections due to proton parton distribution functions. These results indicate that the correlated NLO predictions for tt̅ and Z/γ^*→ττ significantly underestimate the data, while those at NNLO generally describe the data well. The full cross-sections are measured to be σ(tt̅) = 181.2 ± 2.8^+9.7_-9.5± 3.3 ± 3.3 pb, σ(W^+W^-) = 53.3 ± 2.7^+7.3_-8.0± 1.0 ± 0.5 pb, and σ(Z/γ^*→ττ) = 1174 ± 24^+72_-87± 21 ± 9 pb, where the cited uncertainties are due to statistics, systematic effects, luminosity and the LHC beam energy measurement, respectively.
A search for prompt lepton-jets in pp collisions at √(s)= 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for a new, light boson with a mass of about 1 GeV and decaying promptly to jets of collimated electrons and/or muons (lepton-jets). The analysis is performed with 20.3 fb ^-1, of data collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in proton–proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. Events are required to contain at least two lepton-jets. This study finds no statistically significant deviation from predictions of the Standard Model and places 95% confidence-level upper limits on the contribution of new phenomena beyond the SM, incuding SUSY-portal and Higgs-portal models, on the number of events with lepton-jets.
Measurements of Higgs boson production and couplings in diboson final states with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Measurements are presented of production properties and couplings of the recently discovered Higgs boson using the decays into boson pairs, H →γγ, H → ZZ* → 4l and H → WW* → lν lν. The results are based on the complete pp collision data sample recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider at centre-of-mass energies of √(s)=7 and √(s)=8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of about 25 fb^-1. Evidence for Higgs boson production through vector-boson fusion is reported. Results of combined fits probing Higgs boson couplings to fermions and bosons, as well as anomalous contributions to loop-induced production and decay modes, are presented. All measurements are consistent with expectations for the Standard Model Higgs boson.
Search for Doubly-Charged Higgs Bosons at LEP. Doubly-charged Higgs bosons are searched for in e^+e^- collision data collected with the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. Final states with four leptons are analysed to tag the pair-production of doubly charged Higgs bosons. No significant excess is found and lower limits at 95% confidence level on the doubly-charged Higgs boson mass are derived. They vary from 95.5 GeV to 100.2 GeV, depending on the decay mode. Doubly-charged Higgs bosons which couple to electrons would modify the cross section and forward-backward asymmetry of the e^+e^- -> e^+e^- process. The measurements of these quantities do not deviate from the Standard Model expectations and doubly-charged Higgs bosons with masses up to the order of a TeV are excluded.
Search for anomalous electroweak production of vector boson pairs in association with two jets in proton-proton collisions at 13 TeV. A search for anomalous electroweak production of WW, WZ, and ZZ boson pairs in association with two jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV at the LHC is reported. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector. Events are selected by requiring two jets with large rapidity separation and invariant mass, one or two leptons (electrons or muons), and a W or Z boson decaying hadronically. Constraints on the structure of quartic vector boson interactions in the framework of dimension-8 effective field theory operators are reported. Stringent limits on parameters of the effective field theory operators are obtained. The observed 95% confidence level limits for the S0, M0, and T0 operators are -2.7 < f_S0/ Λ^4 < 2.7, -1.0 < f_M0/ Λ^4 < 1.0, and -0.17 < f_T0/ Λ^4 < 0.16, in units of TeV^-4. Constraints are also reported on the product of the cross section and branching fraction for vector boson fusion production of charged Higgs bosons as a function of mass from 600 to 2000 GeV. The results are interpreted in the context of the Georgi-Machacek model.
Search for higgsino pair production in pp collisions at sqrt(s) = 13 TeV in final states with large missing transverse momentum and two Higgs bosons decaying via H to bb-bar. Results are reported from a search for new physics in 13 TeV proton-proton collisions in the final state with large missing transverse momentum and two Higgs bosons decaying via H to bb-bar. The search uses a data sample accumulated by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 inverse femtobarns. The search is motivated by models based on gauge-mediated supersymmetry breaking, which predict the electroweak production of a pair of higgsinos, each of which can decay via a cascade process to a Higgs boson and an undetected lightest supersymmetric particle. The observed event yields in the signal regions are consistent with the standard model background expectation obtained from control regions in data. Higgsinos in the mass range 230-770 GeV are excluded at 95% confidence level in the context of a simplified model for the production and decay of approximately degenerate higgsinos.
Search for additional neutral MSSM Higgs bosons in the ττ final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is presented for additional neutral Higgs bosons in the ττ final state in proton-proton collisions at the LHC. The search is performed in the context of the minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model (MSSM), using the data collected with the CMS detector in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. To enhance the sensitivity to neutral MSSM Higgs bosons, the search includes production of the Higgs boson in association with b quarks. No significant deviation above the expected background is observed. Model-independent limits at 95% confidence level (CL) are set on the product of the branching fraction for the decay into τ leptons and the cross section for the production via gluon fusion or in association with b quarks. These limits range from 18 pb at 90 GeV to 3.5 fb at 3.2 TeV for gluon fusion and from 15 pb (at 90 GeV) to 2.5 fb (at 3.2 TeV) for production in association with b quarks, assuming a narrow width resonance. In the m_h^mod+ scenario these limits translate into a 95% CL exclusion of tanβ   gt; 6 for neutral Higgs boson masses below 250 GeV, where tanβ is the ratio of the vacuum expectation values of the neutral components of the two Higgs doublets. The 95% CL exclusion contour reaches 1.6 TeV for tanβ= 60.
Search for associated production of a Higgs boson and a single top quark in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for the production of a Higgs boson in association with a single top quark, based on data collected in 2016 by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, which corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 . The production cross section for this process is highly sensitive to the absolute values of the top quark Yukawa coupling, y_t, the Higgs boson coupling to vector bosons, g_HVV, and, uniquely, to their relative sign. Analyses using multilepton signatures, targeting H→WW, H→ττ, and H→ZZ decay modes, and signatures with a single lepton and a bb̅ pair, targeting the H→bb̅ decay, are combined with a reinterpretation of a measurement in the H→γγ channel to constrain y_t. For a standard model-like value of g_HVV, the data favor positive values of y_t and exclude values of y_t below about -0.9 y_t ^SM.
Search for heavy resonances decaying into a vector boson and a Higgs boson in final states with charged leptons, neutrinos and b quarks at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for heavy resonances, decaying into the standard model vector bosons and the standard model Higgs boson, is presented. The final states considered contain a b quark-antiquark pair from the decay of the Higgs boson, along with electrons and muons and missing transverse momentum, due to undetected neutrinos, from the decay of the vector bosons. The mass spectra are used to search for a localized excess consistent with a resonant particle. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected in 2016 by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The data are found to be consistent with background expectations. Exclusion limits are set in the context of spin-0 two Higgs doublet models, some of which include the presence of dark matter. In the spin-1 heavy vector triplet framework, mass-degenerate W' and Z' resonances with dominant couplings to the standard model gauge bosons are excluded below a mass of 2.9 TeV at 95% confidence level.
A flavour-independent Higgs boson search in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) up to 209 GeV. A search for the Higgsstrahlung process e+e- -> HZ is carried out, covering decays of the Higgs boson into any quark pair, a gluon pair or a tau pair. The analysis is based on the 630pb-1 of data collected by the ALEPH detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies from 189 to 209GeV. A 95% C.L. lower mass limit of 109.1GeV/c2 is obtained for a Higgs boson cross section equal to that expected from the Standard Model if the Higgs boson decays exclusively into hadrons and/or taus, irrespective of the relative branching fractions.
Search for resonances decaying into a weak vector boson and a Higgs boson in the fully hadronic final state produced in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy resonances decaying into a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson produced in proton-proton collisions at the Large Hadron Collider at √(s) = 13 TeV is presented. The analysis utilizes the dominant W → q q̅^' or Z → q q̅ and H → b b̅ decays with substructure techniques applied to large-radius jets. A sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector is analyzed and no significant excess of data is observed over the background prediction. The results are interpreted in the context of the Heavy Vector Triplet model with spin-1 W^' and Z^' bosons. Upper limits on the cross section are set for resonances with mass between 1.5 and 5.0 TeV, ranging from 6.8 to 0.53 fb for W^'→ WH and from 8.7 to 0.53 fb for Z^'→ ZH at the 95% confidence level.
Search for an additional, heavy Higgs boson in the H→ ZZ decay channel at √(s) = 8 TeV in pp collision data with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for a high-mass Higgs boson in the H→ℓℓℓℓ, H→ℓℓνν, H→ℓℓ qq, and H→νν qq decay modes using the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The search uses proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. The results of the search are interpreted in the scenario of a heavy Higgs boson with a width that is small compared with the experimental mass resolution. The Higgs boson mass range considered extends up to 1 TeV for all four decay modes and down to as low as 140 GeV, depending on the decay mode. No significant excess of events over the Standard Model prediction is found. A simultaneous fit to the four decay modes yields upper limits on the production cross-section of a heavy Higgs boson times the branching ratio to Z boson pairs. 95% confidence level upper limits range from 0.53 pb at m_H=195 GeV to 0.008 pb at m_H=950 GeV for the gluon-fusion production mode and from 0.31 pb at m_H=195 GeV to 0.009 pb at m_H=950 GeV for the vector-boson-fusion production mode. The results are also interpreted in the context of Type-I and Type-II two-Higgs-doublet models.
Search for exclusive Higgs and Z boson decays to ϕγ and ργ with the ATLAS detector. A search for the exclusive decays of the Higgs and Z bosons to a ϕ or ρ meson and a photon is performed with a pp collision data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of up to 35.6 fb^-1 collected at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. These decays have been suggested as a probe of the Higgs boson couplings to light quarks. No significant excess of events is observed above the background, as expected from the Standard Model. Upper limits at 95% confidence level were obtained on the branching fractions of the Higgs boson decays to ϕγ and ργ of 4.8×10^-4 and 8.8×10^-4, respectively. The corresponding 95% confidence level upper limits for the Z boson decays are 0.9×10^-6 and 25×10^-6 for ϕγ and ργ, respectively.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have searched for the neutral Higgs bosons which are predicted by the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). The data of the four collaborations are statistically combined and examined for their consistency with the background hypothesis and with a possible Higgs boson signal. The combined LEP data show no significant excess of events which would indicate the production of Higgs bosons. The search results are used to set upper bounds on the cross-sections of various Higgs-like event topologies. The results are interpreted within the MSSM in a number of benchmark models, including CP-conserving and CP-violating scenarios. These interpretations lead in all cases to large exclusions in the MSSM parameter space. Absolute limits are set on the parameter tanb and, in some scenarios, on the masses of neutral Higgs bosons.
Search for trilepton resonances from chargino and neutralino pair production in √(s) = 13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for the electroweak pair production of charginos and associated production of a chargino and neutralino, each of which decays through an R-parity-violating coupling into a lepton and a W,   Z, or Higgs boson. The trilepton invariant-mass spectrum is constructed from events with three or more leptons, targeting chargino decays that include an electron or muon and a leptonically decaying Z boson. The analyzed dataset corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data produced by the Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV and collected by the ATLAS experiment between 2015 and 2018. The data are found to be consistent with predictions from the Standard Model. The results are interpreted as limits at 95% confidence level on model-independent cross sections for processes beyond the Standard Model. Limits are also set on the production of charginos and neutralinos for a Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model with an approximate B - L symmetry. Charginos and neutralinos with masses between 100 GeV and 1100 GeV are excluded depending on the assumed decay branching fractions into a lepton (electron, muon, or τ-lepton) plus a boson (W, Z, or Higgs).
Study of vector boson scattering and search for new physics in events with two same-sign leptons and two jets. A measurement of vector-boson scattering in pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV is presented. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 19.4 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector. Candidate events are selected with exactly two leptons, electrons or muons, with the same charge, two jets with large rapidity separation and mass, and moderate missing transverse energy. The signal region is dominated by electroweak same-sign W-boson pair production. The observation agrees with the standard model prediction. The observed significance is 2.0σ, where a significance of 3.1σ is expected for the standard model. Cross section measurements of the W^±W^± and WZ processes in the fiducial region are reported. Bounds on the structure of quartic vector-boson interactions are given in the framework of dimension-eight effective field theory operators, as well as limits on the production of doubly-charged Higgs bosons.
Search for supersymmetry using Higgs boson to diphoton decays at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for supersymmetry (SUSY) is presented where at least one Higgs boson is produced and decays to two photons in the decay chains of pair-produced SUSY particles. Two complementary analysis strategies are pursued: one focused on strong SUSY production and the other focused on electroweak SUSY production. The presence of charged leptons, additional Higgs boson candidates, and various kinematic variables are used to categorize events into search regions that are sensitive to different SUSY scenarios. The results are based on data from proton-proton collisions at the Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 77.5 fb^-1. No statistically significant excess of events is observed relative to the standard model expectations. We exclude bottom squark pair production for bottom squark masses below 530 GeV and a lightest SUSY particle mass of 1 GeV; wino-like chargino-neutralino production for chargino and neutralino masses below 235 GeV with a gravitino mass of 1 GeV; and higgsino-like chargino-neutralino production in the case where the neutralino decays exclusively to a Higgs boson and a gravitino for neutralino masses below 290 GeV.
Search for γγ decays of a Higgs boson produced in association with a fermion pair in e^+ e^- collisions at LEP. A search for gamma-gamma decays of a Higgs boson is performed in the data sample collected at LEP with the ALEPH detector between 1991 and 1999. This corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 672 pb-1 at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 88 to 202 GeV. The search is based on topologies arising from a Higgs boson produced in association with a fermion pair via the Higgs-strahlung process e+e- -> Hff, with ff=nuν, e+e-, mu+mu-, tau+tau- or qq. Twenty-two events are selected in the data, while 28 events are expected from standard model processes. An upper limit is derived, as a function of the Higgs boson mass, on the product of the e+e- -> Hff cross section and the H -> gamma-gamma branching fraction. In particular, a fermiophobic Higgs boson produced with the standard model cross section is excluded at 95% confidence level for all masses below 100.7 GeV.
Search for new resonances decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the ℓ^+ ℓ^- bb̅, ℓν bb̅, and νν̅ bb̅ channels with pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for new resonances decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the ℓ^+ ℓ^- bb̅, ℓν bb̅, and νν̅ bb̅ channels in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider using a total integrated luminosity of 3.2 fb^-1. The search is conducted by looking for a localized excess in the WH/ZH invariant or transverse mass distribution. No significant excess is observed, and the results are interpreted in terms of constraints on a simplified model based on a phenomenological Lagrangian of heavy vector triplets.
Search for Higgs bosons and new particles decaying into two photons at √(s) = 183 GeV. A search for the resonant production of high mass photon pairs associated with a leptonic or hadronic system has been performed using a data sample of 57.7 pb-1 collected at an average center-of-mass energy of 182.6 GeV with the OPAL detector at LEP. No evidence for contributions from non-Standard Model physics processes was observed. The observed candidates are used to place limits on BR (H to gamma gamma) assuming a Standard Model production rate for Higgs boson masses up to 92 GeV, and on the production cross section for a scalar resonance decaying into di-photons up to a mass of 170 GeV. Upper limits on the product of cross section and branching ratios, sigma(e+e- to XY) * BR(X to gamma gamma) * BR(Y to f fbar) as low as 70fb are obtained over the M(X) range 10 - 170 GeV for the case where 10 < M(Y) < 160 GeV and M(X)+M(Y) > 90 GeV, independent of the nature of Y provided it decays to a fermion pair and has negligible width. Higgs scalars which couple only to gauge bosons at Standard Model strength are ruled out up to a mass of 90.0 GeV at the 95% confidence level. Limits are also placed on non-minimal Higgs sectors having triplet representations.
Dark matter interpretations of ATLAS searches for the electroweak production of supersymmetric particles in √(s) = 8 TeV proton-proton collisions. A selection of searches by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC for the electroweak production of SUSY particles are used to study their impact on the constraints on dark matter candidates. The searches use 20  fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s)=8 TeV. A likelihood-driven scan of a five-dimensional effective model focusing on the gaugino–higgsino and Higgs sector of the phenomenological minimal supersymmetric Standard Model is performed. This scan uses data from direct dark matter detection experiments, the relic dark matter density and precision flavour physics results. Further constraints from the ATLAS Higgs mass measurement and SUSY searches at LEP are also applied. A subset of models selected from this scan are used to assess the impact of the selected ATLAS searches in this five-dimensional parameter space. These ATLAS searches substantially impact those models for which the mass m(χ̃^0_1) of the lightest neutralino is less than 65 GeV, excluding 86% of such models. The searches have limited impact on models with larger m(χ̃^0_1) due to either heavy electroweakinos or compressed mass spectra where the mass splittings between the produced particles and the lightest supersymmetric particle is small.
Summary of the ATLAS experiment's sensitivity to supersymmetry after LHC Run 1 - interpreted in the phenomenological MSSM. A summary of the constraints from the ATLAS experiment on R-parity conserving supersymmetry is presented. Results from 22 separate ATLAS searches are considered, each based on analysis of up to 20.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at the centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV at the Large Hadron Collider.  The results are interpreted in the context of the 19-parameter phenomenological minimal supersymmetric standard model, in which the lightest supersymmetric particle is a neutralino, taking into account constraints from previous precision electroweak and flavour measurements as well as from dark matter related measurements.  The results are presented in terms of constraints on supersymmetric particle masses and are compared to limits from simplified models. The impact of ATLAS searches on parameters such as the dark matter relic density, the couplings of the observed Higgs boson, and the degree of electroweak fine-tuning is also shown.  Spectra for surviving supersymmetry model points with low fine-tunings are presented.
Search for Doubly-Charged Higgs Bosons at LEP. Doubly-charged Higgs bosons are searched for in e^+e^- collision data collected with the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. Final states with four leptons are analysed to tag the pair-production of doubly charged Higgs bosons. No significant excess is found and lower limits at 95% confidence level on the doubly-charged Higgs boson mass are derived. They vary from 95.5 GeV to 100.2 GeV, depending on the decay mode. Doubly-charged Higgs bosons which couple to electrons would modify the cross section and forward-backward asymmetry of the e^+e^- -> e^+e^- process. The measurements of these quantities do not deviate from the Standard Model expectations and doubly-charged Higgs bosons with masses up to the order of a TeV are excluded.
Search for the minimal Standard Model Higgs boson.
Constraints on anomalous HVV couplings from the production of Higgs bosons decaying to τ lepton pairs. A study is presented of anomalous HVV interactions of the Higgs boson, including its CP properties. The study uses Higgs boson candidates produced mainly in vector boson fusion and gluon fusion that subsequently decay to a pair of τ leptons. The data were recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. A matrix element technique is employed for the analysis of anomalous interactions. The results are combined with those from the H→ 4ℓ decay channel presented earlier, yielding the most stringent constraints on anomalous Higgs boson couplings to electroweak vector bosons expressed as effective cross-section fractions and phases: the CP-violating parameter f_a3cos(ϕ_a3)=(0.00 ± 0.27 )×10^-3 and the CP-conserving parameters f_a2cos(ϕ_a2)=(0.08^+1.04_-0.21)×10^-3, f_Λ1cos(ϕ_Λ1)=(0.00^+0.53_-0.09)×10^-3, and f_Λ1^Zγcos(ϕ_Λ1^Zγ)=(0.0^+1.1_-1.3)×10^-3. The current data set does not allow for precise constraints on CP properties in the gluon fusion process. The results are consistent with standard model expectations.
Performance of photon reconstruction and identification with the CMS detector in proton-proton collisions at √(s) =8 TeV. A description is provided of the performance of the CMS detector for photon reconstruction and identification in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV at the CERN LHC. Details are given on the reconstruction of photons from energy deposits in the electromagnetic calorimeter (ECAL) and the extraction of photon energy estimates. The reconstruction of electron tracks from photons that convert to electrons in the CMS tracker is also described, as is the optimization of the photon energy reconstruction and its accurate modelling in simulation, in the analysis of the Higgs boson decay into two photons. In the barrel section of the ECAL, an energy resolution of about 1% is achieved for unconverted or late-converting photons from H→γγ decays. Different photon identification methods are discussed and their corresponding selection efficiencies in data are compared with those found in simulated events. The measurement of the photon purity is described for one set of photon identification criteria.
Search for top-squark pairs decaying into Higgs or Z bosons in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for supersymmetry through the direct pair production of top squarks, with Higgs (H) or Z bosons in the decay chain, is performed using a data sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV collected in 2012 with the CMS detector at the LHC. The sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 inverse-femtobarns. The search is performed using a selection of events containing leptons and bottom-quark jets. No evidence for a significant excess of events over the standard model background prediction is observed. The results are interpreted in the context of simplified supersymmetric models with pair production of a heavier top-squark mass eigenstate stop_2 decaying to a lighter top-squark mass eigenstate stop_1 via either stop_2 → H stop_1 or stop_2 → Z stop_1, followed in both cases by stop_1 → top neutralino, where the neutralino is an undetected, stable, lightest supersymmetric particle. The interpretation is performed in the region where the mass difference between the stop_2 and stop_1 states is approximately equal to the top-quark mass, m_(stop_2) - m_(stop_1)   m_(top), which is not probed by searches for direct stop_1 squark pair production. The analysis excludes top squarks with masses m(stop_2) less than 575 GeV and m(stop_1) less than 400 GeV at a 95% confidence level.

Mass limits for a standard model Higgs boson in e+e- collisions at LEP.
Search for neutral Higgs at LEP 200.
Search for lepton-flavour-violating decays of the Higgs boson. The first direct search for lepton-flavour-violating decays of the recently discovered Higgs boson (H) is described. The search is performed in the H →μτ_e and H →μτ_h channels, where τ_e and τ_h are tau leptons reconstructed in the electronic and hadronic decay channels, respectively. The data sample used in this search was collected in pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV with the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The sensitivity of the search is an order of magnitude better than the existing indirect limits. A slight excess of signal events with a significance of 2.4 standard deviations is observed. The p-value of this excess at M_H = 125 GeV is 0.010. The best fit branching fraction is ℬ(H →μτ )=(0.84^+0.39_-0.37)%. A constraint on the branching fraction, ℬ(H →μτ) less than 1.51% at 95% confidence level, is set. This limit is subsequently used to constrain the μ-τ Yukawa couplings to be less than 3.6× 10^-3.
Observation of Higgs boson production in association with a top quark pair at the LHC with the ATLAS detector. The observation of Higgs boson production in association with a top quark pair (tt̅H), based on the analysis of proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider, is presented. Using data corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 79.8 fb^-1, and considering Higgs boson decays into bb̅, WW^*, ττ, γγ, and ZZ^*, the observed significance is 5.8 standard deviations, compared to an expectation of 4.9 standard deviations. Combined with the tt̅H searches using a dataset corresponding to integrated luminosities of 4.5 fb^-1 at 7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 at 8 TeV, the observed (expected) significance is 6.3 (5.1) standard deviations. Assuming Standard Model branching fractions, the total tt̅H production cross section at 13 TeV is measured to be 670 ± 90 (stat.) ^+110_-100 (syst.) fb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction.
Evidence for the direct decay of the 125 GeV Higgs boson to fermions. The discovery of a new boson with a mass of approximately 125 GeV in 2012 at the LHC has heralded a new era in understanding the nature of electroweak symmetry breaking and possibly completing the standard model of particle physics. Since the first observation in decays to gamma-gamma, WW, and ZZ boson pairs, an extensive set of measurements of the mass and couplings to W and Z bosons, as well as multiple tests of the spin-parity quantum numbers, have revealed that the properties of the new boson are consistent with those of the long-sought agent responsible for electroweak symmetry breaking. An important open question is whether the new particle also couples to fermions, and in particular to down-type fermions, since the current measurements mainly constrain the couplings to the up-type top quark. Determination of the couplings to down-type fermions requires direct measurement of the corresponding Higgs boson decays, as recently reported by the CMS experiment in the study of Higgs decays to bottom quarks and tau-leptons. In this paper we report the combination of these two channels which results, for the first time, in strong evidence for the direct coupling of the 125-GeV Higgs boson to down-type fermions, with an observed significance of 3.8 standard deviations, when 4.4 are expected.
Search for heavy resonances decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the qq̅^(')bb̅ final state in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy resonances decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the qq̅^(')bb̅ final state is described. The search uses 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider in 2015 and 2016. The data are in agreement with the Standard Model expectations, with the largest excess found at a resonance mass of 3.0 TeV with a local (global) significance of 3.3 (2.1) σ. The results are presented in terms of constraints on a simplified model with a heavy vector triplet. Upper limits are set on the production cross-section times branching ratio for resonances decaying to a W (Z) boson and a Higgs boson, itself decaying to bb̅, in the mass range between 1.1 and 3.8 TeV; the limits range between 83 and 1.6 fb (77 and 1.1 fb) at 95% confidence level.
Search for H →γγ produced in association with top quarks and constraints on the Yukawa coupling between the top quark and the Higgs boson using data taken at 7 TeV and 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for Higgs bosons produced in association with top quarks using the diphoton decay mode of the Higgs boson. Selection requirements are optimized separately for leptonic and fully hadronic final states from the top quark decays.  The dataset used corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.5  of proton–proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV and 20.3  at 8 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess over the background prediction is observed and upper limits are set on the tt̅H production cross section. The observed exclusion upper limit at 95% confidence level is 6.7 times the predicted Standard Model cross section value. In addition, limits are set on the strength of the Yukawa coupling between the top quark and the Higgs boson, taking into account the dependence of the tt̅H and tH cross sections as well as the H →γγ branching fraction on the Yukawa coupling. Lower and upper limits at 95% confidence level are set at -1.3 and +8.0 times the Yukawa coupling strength in the Standard Model.
Search for anomalous production of prompt like-sign muon pairs and constraints on physics beyond the Standard Model with the ATLAS detector. An inclusive search for anomalous production of two prompt, isolated muons with the same electric charge is presented. The search is performed in a data sample corresponding to 1.6 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity collected in 2011 at sqrt(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Muon pairs are selected by requiring two isolated muons of the same electric charge with pT > 20 GeV and abs(eta) < 2.5. Minimal requirements are placed on the rest of the event activity. The distribution of the invariant mass of the muon pair m(mumu) is found to agree well with the background expectation. Upper limits on the cross section for anomalous production of two muons with the same electric charge are placed as a function of m(mumu) within a fiducial region defined by the event selection. The fiducial cross- section limit constrains the like-sign top-quark pair-production cross section to be below 3.7 pb at 95% confidence level. The data are also analyzed to search for a narrow like-sign dimuon resonance as predicted for e.g. doubly charged Higgs bosons (H++/H–). Assuming pair production of H++/H– bosons and a branching ratio to muons of 100% (33%), this analysis excludes masses below 355 (244) GeV and 251 (209) GeV for H++/H– bosons coupling to left-handed and right-handed fermions, respectively.
Search for the Higgs boson in the H → WW → lν jj decay channel at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson has been performed in the H → WW → lν jj channel using 4.7 fb^-1 of pp collision data recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. Higgs boson candidates produced in association with zero, one or two jets are included in the analysis to maximize the acceptance for both gluon fusion and weak boson fusion Higgs boson production processes. No significant excess of events is observed over the expected background and limits on the Higgs boson production cross section are derived for a Higgs boson mass in the range 300 GeV < m_H < 600 GeV. The best sensitivity is reached for m_H = 400 GeV, where the observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper bound on the cross section for H → WW produced in association with zero or one jet is 2.2 pb (1.9 pb), corresponding to 1.9 (1.6) times the Standard Model prediction. In the Higgs boson plus two jets channel, which is more sensitive to the weak boson fusion process, the observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper bound on the cross section for H → WW production with m_H = 400 GeV is 0.7 pb (0.6 pb), corresponding to 7.9 (6.5) times the Standard Model prediction.
Search for invisible decays of Higgs bosons in the vector boson fusion and associated ZH production modes. A search for invisible decays of Higgs bosons is performed using the vector boson fusion and associated ZH production modes. In the ZH mode, the Z boson is required to decay to a pair of charged leptons or a bb̅ quark pair. The searches use the 8 TeV pp collision dataset collected by the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of up to 19.7 inverse femtobarns. Certain channels include data from 7 TeV collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 inverse femtobarns. The searches are sensitive to non-standard-model invisible decays of the recently observed Higgs boson, as well as additional Higgs bosons with similar production modes and large invisible branching fractions. In all channels, the observed data are consistent with the expected standard model backgrounds. Limits are set on the production cross section times invisible branching fraction, as a function of the Higgs boson mass, for the vector boson fusion and ZH production modes. By combining all channels, and assuming standard model Higgs boson cross sections and acceptances, the observed (expected) upper limit on the invisible branching fraction at m_H=125 GeV is found to be 0.58 (0.44) at 95% confidence level. We interpret this limit in terms of a Higgs-portal model of dark matter interactions.
Searches for lepton-flavour-violating decays of the Higgs boson in √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. This Letter presents direct searches for lepton flavour violation in Higgs boson decays, H→ eτ and H→μτ, performed with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The searches are based on a data sample of proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. No significant excess is observed above the expected background from Standard Model processes. The observed (median expected) 95% confidence-level upper limits are 0.47% (0.34^+0.13_-0.10%) and 0.28% (0.37^+0.14_-0.10%) for H→ eτ and H→μτ, respectively.
Search for Higgs boson decays into pairs of light (pseudo)scalar particles in the γγ jj final state in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This Letter presents a search for exotic decays of the Higgs boson to a pair of new (pseudo)scalar particles, H→ aa, where the a particle has a mass in the range 20-60 GeV, and where one of the a bosons decays into a pair of photons and the other to a pair of gluons. The search is performed in event samples enhanced in vector-boson fusion Higgs boson production by requiring two jets with large invariant mass in addition to the Higgs boson candidate decay products. The analysis is based on the full dataset of pp collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.7 fb^-1. The data are in agreement with the Standard Model predictions and an upper limit at the 95% confidence level is placed on the production cross section times the branching ratio for the decay H→ aa→γγ gg. This limit ranges from 3.1 pb to 9.0 pb depending on the mass of the a boson.
Search for lepton flavour violating decays of the Higgs boson to e τ and e μ in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 8  TeV. A direct search for lepton flavour violating decays of the Higgs boson (H) in the H → e τ and H → e μ channels is described. The data sample used in the search was collected in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 8  TeV with the CMS detector at the LHC and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. No evidence is found for lepton flavour violating decays in either final state. Upper limits on the branching fractions, ℬ( H → e τ )< 0.69% and ℬ( H → e μ)< 0.035%, are set at the 95% confidence level. The constraint set on ℬ( H → e τ) is an order of magnitude more stringent than the existing indirect limits. The limits are used to constrain the corresponding flavour violating Yukawa couplings, absent in the standard model.
A search for the neutral Higgs boson at LEP.
Search for vector-like light-flavor quark partners in proton-proton collisions at √(s) =8 TeV. A search is presented for heavy vector-like quarks (VLQs) that couple only to light quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV at the LHC. The data were collected by the CMS experiment during 2012 and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. Both single and pair production of VLQs are considered. The single-production search is performed for down-type VLQs (electric charge of magnitude 1/3), while the pair-production search is sensitive to up-type (charge of magnitude 2/3) and down-type VLQs. Final states with at least one muon or one electron are considered. No significant excess over standard model expectations is observed, and lower limits on the mass of VLQs are derived. The lower limits range from 400 to 1800 GeV, depending on the single-production cross section and the VLQ branching fractions B to W, Z, and Higgs bosons. When considering pair production alone, VLQs with masses below 845 GeV are excluded for B(W) = 1.0, and below 685 GeV for B(W) = 0.5, B(Z) = B(H) = 0.25. The results are more stringent than those previously obtained for single and pair production of VLQs coupled to light quarks.
Search for top quark decays t → qH, with H→γγ, in √(s) = 13 TeV pp collisions using the ATLAS detector. This article presents a search for flavour-changing neutral currents in the decay of a top quark into an up-type (q = c, u) quark and a Higgs boson, where the Higgs boson decays into two photons. The proton–proton collision data set analysed amounts to 36.1 fb^-1 at √(s) = 13 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. Top quark pair events are searched for, where one top quark decays into qH and the other decays into bW. Both the hadronic and leptonic decay modes of the W boson are used. No significant excess is observed and an upper limit is set on the t → cH branching ratio of 2.2× 10^-3 at the 95% confidence level, while the expected limit in the absence of signal is 1.6 × 10^-3. The corresponding limit on the tcH coupling is 0.090 at the 95% confidence level. The observed upper limit on the t → uH branching ratio is 2.4 × 10^-3.
Measurements of Cross Sections and Forward-Backward Asymmetries at the Z Resonance and Determination of Electroweak Parameters. We report on measurements of hadronic and leptonic cross sections and leptonic forward-backward asymmetries performed with the L3 detector in the years 1993-95.A total luminosity of 103 pb^-1 was collected at centre-of-mass energies √(s)≈ m_Z and √(s)≈ m_Z± 1.8 GeVwhich corresponds to 2.5 million hadronic and 245 thousand leptonic events selected.These data lead to a significantly improved determination of Z parameters.From the total cross sections, combined with our measurements in 1990-92,we obtain the final results:%%% m_Z = 91189.8 ±3.1 MeV , Γ_Z = 2502.4 ±4.2 MeV ,
Measurement of the B^+ and B^0 lifetimes and search for CP(T) violation using reconstructed secondary vertices. The lifetimes of the B+ and B0 mesons, and their ratio, have been measured in the OPAL experiment using 2.4 million hadronic Z0 decays recorded at LEP. Z0 -> b bbar decays were tagged using displaced secondary vertices and high momentum electrons and muons. The lifetimes were then measured using well-reconstructed charged and neutral secondary vertices selected in this tagged data sample. The results are tau(B+) = 1.643 +- 0.037 +- 0.025 ps tau(B0) = 1.523 +- 0.057 +- 0.053 ps ratio tau(B+)/tau(B0) = 1.079 +- 0.064 +- 0.041 where in each case the first error is statistical and the second systematic. A larger data sample of 3.1 million hadronic Z0 decays has been used to search for CP and CPT violating effects by comparison of inclusive b and bbar hadron decays. No evidence for such effects is seen. The CP violation parameter Re(epsilon_B) is measured to be Re(epsilon_B) = 0.001 +- 0.014 +- 0.003 and the fractional difference between b and bbar hadron lifetimes is measured to be -0.001 +- 0.012 +- 0.008
Determination of spin and parity of the Higgs boson in the WW^*→ e νμν decay channel with the ATLAS detector. Studies of the spin and parity quantum numbers of the Higgs boson in the WW^* → e νμν final state  are presented,  based on proton–proton collision data collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=8 TeV. The Standard Model spin-parity J^CP = 0^++ hypothesis is compared with alternative hypotheses for both spin and CP. The case where the observed resonance is a mixture of the Standard-Model-like Higgs boson and CP-even  (J^CP = 0^++) or  CP-odd (J^CP = 0^+-) Higgs boson in scenarios beyond the Standard Model is also studied.  The data are found to be consistent with the Standard Model prediction and limits are placed on alternative spin and CP hypotheses, including CP mixing in different scenarios. 
Measurement of detector-corrected observables sensitive to the anomalous production of events with jets and large missing transverse momentum in pp collisions at √(𝐬)=13  TeV using the ATLAS detector. Observables sensitive to the anomalous production of events containing hadronic jets and missing momentum in the plane transverse to the proton beams at the Large Hadron Collider are presented. The observables are defined as a ratio of cross sections, for events containing jets and large missing transverse momentum to events containing jets and a pair of charged leptons from the decay of a Z/γ^∗ boson. This definition minimises experimental and theoretical systematic uncertainties in the measurements. This ratio is measured differentially with respect to a number of kinematic properties of the hadronic system in two phase-space regions; one inclusive single-jet region and one region sensitive to vector-boson-fusion topologies. The data are found to be in agreement with the Standard Model predictions and used to constrain a variety of theoretical models for dark-matter production, including simplified models, effective field theory models, and invisible decays of the Higgs boson. The measurements use 3.2 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and are fully corrected for detector effects, meaning that the data can be used to constrain new-physics models beyond those shown in this paper.
Combination of searches for heavy resonances decaying to WW, WZ, ZZ, WH, and ZH boson pairs in proton–proton collisions at √(s)=8 and 13 TeV. A statistical combination of searches is presented for massive resonances decaying to WW, WZ, ZZ, WH, and ZH boson pairs in proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The data are taken at centre-of-mass energies of 8 and 13 TeV, corresponding to respective integrated luminosities of 19.7 and up to 2.7 inverse femtobarns. The results are interpreted in the context of heavy vector triplet and singlet models that mimic properties of composite-Higgs models predicting W' and Z' bosons decaying to WZ, WW, WH, and ZH bosons. A model with a bulk graviton that decays into WW and ZZ is also considered. This is the first combined search for WW, WZ, WH, and ZH resonances and yields lower limits on masses at 95% confidence level for W' and Z' singlets at 2.3 TeV, and for a triplet at 2.4 TeV. The limits on the production cross section of a narrow bulk graviton resonance with the curvature scale of the warped extra dimension k = 0.5, in the mass range of 0.6 to 4.0 TeV, are the most stringent published to date.
Search for a light charged Higgs boson in the decay channel H^+ → cs̅ in tt̅ events using pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a charged Higgs boson (H^+) in tt̅ decays is presented, where one of the top quarks decays via t → H^+b, followed by H^+ → two jets (cs̅). The other top quark decays to Wb, where the W boson then decays into a lepton (e/μ) and a neutrino. The data were recorded in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the LHC in 2011, and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb-1. With no observation of a signal, 95% confidence level (CL) upper limits are set on the decay branching ratio of top quarks to charged Higgs bosons varying between 5% and 1% for H^+ masses between 90 GeV and 150 GeV, assuming B(H^+ → cs̅)=100%.
Search for charged Higgs bosons decaying via H^±→τν in tt̅ events using pp collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The results of a search for charged Higgs bosons are presented. The analysis is based on 4.6/fb of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider, using top quark pair events with a tau lepton in the final state. The data are consistent with the expected background from Standard Model processes. Assuming that the branching ratio of the charged Higgs boson to a tau lepton and a neutrino is 100%, this leads to upper limits on the branching ratio of top quark decays to a b quark and a charged Higgs boson between 5% and 1% for charged Higgs boson masses ranging from 90 GeV to 160 GeV, respectively. In the context of the mh-max scenario of the MSSM, tan(beta) above 12-26, as well as between 1 and 2-6, can be excluded for charged Higgs boson masses between 90 GeV and 150 GeV.
Search for γγ decays of a Higgs boson in e^+e^- collisions at √(s) up to 209 GeV. A search for events with a photon pair arising from the decay of a Higgs boson produced in association with a fermion pair, is performed in 893pb^-1 of data recorded by the ALEPH detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies up to 209GeV. No excess of such events is found over the expected background. An upper limit is derived on the product of the e^+e^- -> HZ cross section and the H -> gamma gamma branching fraction as a function of the Higgs boson mass. A fermiophobic Higgs boson produced with the Standard Model cross section is excluded at 95% confidence level for all masses below 105.4GeV/c2
Search for direct production of electroweakinos in final states with one  lepton, missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson decaying into two b-jets in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The results of a search for electroweakino pair production pp →χ̃^±_1 χ̃^0_2 in which the chargino (χ̃^±_1) decays into a W boson and the lightest neutralino (χ̃^0_1), while the heavier neutralino (χ̃^0_2) decays into the Standard Model 125 GeV Higgs boson and a second χ̃^0_1 are presented. The signal selection requires a pair of b-tagged jets consistent with those from a Higgs boson decay, and either an electron or a muon from the W boson decay, together with missing transverse momentum from the corresponding neutrino and the stable neutralinos. The analysis is based on data corresponding to 139 fb^-1 of √(s)=13 TeV pp collisions provided by the Large Hadron Collider and recorded by the ATLAS detector. No statistically significant evidence of an excess of events above the Standard Model expectation is found. Limits are set on the direct production of the electroweakinos in simplified models, assuming pure wino cross-sections. Masses of χ̃^±_1/χ̃^0_2 up to 740 GeV are excluded at 95% confidence level for a massless χ̃^0_1.
Measurements of properties of the Higgs boson decaying into the four-lepton final state in pp collisions at sqrt(s) = 13 TeV. Properties of the Higgs boson are measured in the H to ZZ to 4l (l= e, mu) decay channel. A data sample of proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s) = 13 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the LHC and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 inverse femtobarns is used. The signal strength modifier mu, defined as the ratio of the observed Higgs boson rate in the H to ZZ to 4l decay channel to the standard model expectation, is measured to be mu = 1.05 +0.19/-0.17 at m[H ]= 125.09 GeV, the combined ATLAS and CMS measurement of the Higgs boson mass. The signal strength modifiers for the individual Higgs boson production modes are also measured. The cross section in the fiducial phase space defined by the requirements on lepton kinematics and event topology is measured to be 2.92 +0.48/-0.44 (stat) +0.28/-0.24 (syst) fb, which is compatible with the standard model prediction of 2.76 +/- 0.14 fb. Differential cross sections are reported as a function of the transverse momentum of the Higgs boson, the number of associated jets, and the transverse momentum of the leading associated jet. The Higgs boson mass is measured to be m[H] = 125.26 +/- 0.21 GeV and the width is constrained using on-shell production to be Gamma[H] < 1.10 GeV, at 95% confidence level.
Search for Higgs boson decays into pairs of light (pseudo)scalar particles in the γγ jj final state in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This Letter presents a search for exotic decays of the Higgs boson to a pair of new (pseudo)scalar particles, H→ aa, where the a particle has a mass in the range 20-60 GeV, and where one of the a bosons decays into a pair of photons and the other to a pair of gluons. The search is performed in event samples enhanced in vector-boson fusion Higgs boson production by requiring two jets with large invariant mass in addition to the Higgs boson candidate decay products. The analysis is based on the full dataset of pp collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.7 fb^-1. The data are in agreement with the Standard Model predictions and an upper limit at the 95% confidence level is placed on the production cross section times the branching ratio for the decay H→ aa→γγ gg. This limit ranges from 3.1 pb to 9.0 pb depending on the mass of the a boson.
Search for new physics in events with a leptonically decaying Z boson and a large transverse momentum imbalance in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for new physics in events with a Z boson produced in association with large missing transverse momentum at the LHC is presented. The search is based on the 2016 data sample of proton-proton collisions recorded with the CMS experiment at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The results of this search are interpreted in terms of a simplified model of dark matter production via spin-0 or spin-1 mediators, a scenario with a standard-model-like Higgs boson produced in association with the Z boson and decaying invisibly, a model of unparticle production, and a model with large extra spatial dimensions. No significant deviations from the background expectations are found, and limits are set on relevant model parameters, significantly extending the results previously achieved in this channel.
Search for flavor-changing neutral currents in top quark decays t→ Hc and t → Hu in multilepton final states in proton–proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Flavor-changing neutral currents are not present in the Standard Model at tree level and are suppressed in loop processes by the unitarity of the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix; the corresponding rates for top quark decay processes are experimentally unobservable. Extensions of the Standard Model can generate new flavor-changing neutral current processes, leading to signals which, if observed, would be unambiguous evidence of new interactions. A dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of √(s)= 13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider is used to search for top quarks decaying to up or charm quarks with the emission of a Higgs boson, with subsequent Higgs boson decay to final states with at least one electron or muon. No signal is observed and limits on the branching fractions ℬ(t → Hc)
Search for γγ decays of a Higgs boson produced in association with a fermion pair in e^+ e^- collisions at LEP. A search for gamma-gamma decays of a Higgs boson is performed in the data sample collected at LEP with the ALEPH detector between 1991 and 1999. This corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 672 pb-1 at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 88 to 202 GeV. The search is based on topologies arising from a Higgs boson produced in association with a fermion pair via the Higgs-strahlung process e+e- -> Hff, with ff=nuν, e+e-, mu+mu-, tau+tau- or qq. Twenty-two events are selected in the data, while 28 events are expected from standard model processes. An upper limit is derived, as a function of the Higgs boson mass, on the product of the e+e- -> Hff cross section and the H -> gamma-gamma branching fraction. In particular, a fermiophobic Higgs boson produced with the standard model cross section is excluded at 95% confidence level for all masses below 100.7 GeV.
Search for a light Higgs boson decaying to long-lived weakly-interacting particles in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the decay of a light Higgs (120 - 140 GeV) to a pair of weakly-interacting, long-lived particles in 1.94 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at sqrts = 7 TeV recorded in 2011 by the ATLAS detector is presented. The search strategy requires that both long-lived particles decay inside the muon spectrometer. No excess of events is observed above the expected background and limits on the Higgs boson production times branching ratio to weakly-interacting, long-lived particles are derived as a function of the particle proper decay length.
Search for resonances decaying to a pair of Higgs bosons in the bb̅qq̅'ℓν final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeVSearch for resonances decaying to a pair of Higgs bosons in the bbqq'ℓν final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for new massive particles decaying into a pair of Higgs bosons in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV is presented. Data were collected with the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search is performed for resonances with a mass between 0.8 and 3.5 TeV using events in which one Higgs boson decays into a bottom quark pair and the other decays into two W bosons that subsequently decay into a lepton, a neutrino, and a quark pair. The Higgs boson decays are reconstructed with techniques that identify final state quarks as substructure within boosted jets. The data are consistent with standard model expectations. Exclusion limits are placed on the product of the cross section and branching fraction for generic spin-0 and spin-2 massive resonances. The results are interpreted in the context of radion and bulk graviton production in models with a warped extra spatial dimension. These are the best results to date from searches for an HH resonance decaying to this final state, and they are comparable to the results from searches in other channels for resonances with masses below 1.5 TeV.
Searches for Higgs boson pair production in the hh→ bbττ, γγ WW*, γγ bb, bbbb channels with the ATLAS detector. Searches for both resonant and non-resonant Higgs boson pair production are performed in the hh→ bbττ, γγ WW^* final states using 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No evidence of their production is observed and 95% confidence level upper limits on the production cross sections are set. These results are then combined with the published results of the hh→γγ bb, bbbb analyses. An upper limit of 0.69 (0.47) pb on the non-resonant Standard Model like hh production is observed (expected), corresponding to 70 (48) times of the SM gg→ hh cross section. For production via narrow resonances, cross section limits of hh production from a heavy Higgs boson decay are set as a function of the heavy Higgs boson mass. The observed (expected) limits range from 2.1 (1.1) pb at 260 GeV to 0.011 (0.018) pb at 1000 GeV. These results are interpreted in the context of two simplified scenarios of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model.
Combined search for anomalous pseudoscalar HVV couplings in VH production and H → VV decay. A search for anomalous pseudoscalar couplings of the Higgs boson H to electroweak vector bosons V (= W or Z) in a sample of proton-proton collision events corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 18.9 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV is presented. Events consistent with the topology of associated VH production, where the Higgs boson decays to a pair of bottom quarks and the vector boson decays leptonically, are analyzed. The consistency of data with a potential pseudoscalar contribution to the HVV interaction, expressed by the effective pseudoscalar cross section fractions f_a_3, is assessed by means of profile likelihood scans. Results are given for the VH channels alone and for a combined analysis of the VH and previously published H → VV channels. Assuming the standard model ratio of the coupling strengths of the Higgs boson to top and bottom quarks, f_a_3^ZZ>0.0034 is excluded at 95% confidence level in the combination.
Determination of the LEP centre-of-mass energy from Zγ events. Radiative returns to the Z resonance (Zγevents) are used to determine the LEP2 centre-of-mass energy from the data collected with the ALEPH detector in 1997. The average centre-of-mass energy is measured to be: E_CM = 182.50 +- 0.19 (stat.) +- 0.08 (syst.) GeV in good agreement with the precise determination by the LEP energy working group of 182.652 +- 0.050 GeV. If applied to the measurement of the W mass, its precision translates into a systematic error on M_W which is smaller than the statistical error achieved from the corresponding dataset.
Electroweak Measurements in Electron-Positron Collisions at W-Boson-Pair Energies at LEP. Electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the electron-positron collider LEP at CERN from 1995 to 2000 are reported. The combined data set considered in this report corresponds to a total luminosity of about 3 fb^-1 collected by the four LEP experiments ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 130 GeV to 209 GeV. Combining the published results of the four LEP experiments, the measurements include total and differential cross-sections in photon-pair, fermion-pair and four-fermion production, the latter resulting from both double-resonant WW and ZZ production as well as singly resonant production. Total and differential cross-sections are measured precisely, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model at centre-of-mass energies never explored before in electron-positron collisions. Final-state interaction effects in four-fermion production, such as those arising from colour reconnection and Bose-Einstein correlations between the two W decay systems arising in WW production, are searched for and upper limits on the strength of possible effects are obtained. The data are used to determine fundamental properties of the W boson and the electroweak theory. Among others, the mass and width of the W boson, M_W and Γ_W, the branching fraction of W decays to hadrons, B(W→had), and the trilinear gauge-boson self-couplings g^Z_1, κ_γ and λ_γ are determined to be: m_W = 80.376 ± 0.033 GeV Γ_W = 2.195 ± 0.083 GeV B(W →had) = 67.41 ± 0.27% g^Z_1 = 0.984 ^+0.018_-0.020 κ_γ = 0.982 ± 0.042 λ_γ = -0.022 ± 0.019
Reconstruction and identification of boosted di-τ systems in a search for Higgs boson pairs using 13 TeV proton-proton collision data in ATLAS. In this paper, a new technique for reconstructing and identifying hadronically decaying τ^+τ^- pairs with a large Lorentz boost, referred to as the di-τ tagger, is developed and used for the first time in the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. A benchmark di-τ tagging selection is employed in the search for resonant Higgs boson pair production, where one Higgs boson decays into a boosted bb̅ pair and the other into a boosted τ^+τ^- pair, with two hadronically decaying τ-leptons in the final state. Using 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, the efficiency of the di-τ tagger is determined and the background with quark- or gluon-initiated jets misidentified as di-τ objects is estimated. The search for a heavy, narrow, scalar resonance produced via gluon-gluon fusion and decaying into two Higgs bosons is carried out in the mass range 1-3 TeV using the same dataset. No deviations from the Standard Model predictions are observed, and 95% confidence-level exclusion limits are set on this model.
Combined measurement of differential and total cross sections in the H →γγ and the H → ZZ^* → 4ℓ decay channels at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A combined measurement of differential and inclusive total cross sections of Higgs boson production is performed using 36.1 fb^-1 of 13 TeV proton–proton collision data produced by the LHC and recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016. Cross sections are obtained from measured H →γγ and H → ZZ^∗→ 4ℓ event yields, which are combined taking into account detector efficiencies, resolution, acceptances and branching fractions. The total Higgs boson production cross section is measured to be 57.0^+6.0_-5.9 (stat.) ^+4.0_-3.3 (syst.) pb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction. Differential cross-section measurements are presented for the Higgs boson transverse momentum distribution, Higgs boson rapidity, number of jets produced together with the Higgs boson, and the transverse momentum of the leading jet. The results from the two decay channels are found to be compatible, and their combination agrees with the Standard Model predictions.
Study of (W/Z)H production and Higgs boson couplings using H → WW^∗ decays with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson production in association with a W or Z boson, in the H → WW^∗ decay channel, is performed with a data sample collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at centre-of-mass energies √(s)=7 TeV and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 4.5 fb^-1 and 20.3 fb^-1, respectively. The WH production mode is studied in two-lepton and three-lepton final states, while two-lepton and four-lepton final states are used to search for the ZH production mode. The observed significance, for the combined WH and ZH production, is 2.5 standard deviations while a significance of 0.9 standard deviations is expected in the Standard Model Higgs boson hypothesis. The ratio of the combined WH and ZH signal yield to the Standard Model expectation, μ_VH, is found to be μ_VH =3.0^+1.3_-1.1 ( stat.)^+1.0_-0.7 ( sys.) for the Higgs boson mass of 125.36 GeV. The WH and ZH production modes are also combined with the gluon fusion and vector boson fusion production modes studied in the H → WW^* →ℓνℓν decay channel, resulting in an overall observed significance of 6.5 standard deviations and μ_ ggF+VBF+VH = 1.16^+0.16_-0.15 (stat.)^+0.18_-0.15 (sys.). The results are interpreted in terms of scaling factors of the Higgs boson couplings to vector bosons (k_V) and fermions (k_F); the combined results are: |κ_V| = 1.06^+0.10_-0.10, |κ_F| = 0.85^+0.26_-0.20.
Combined Measurement of the Higgs Boson Mass in pp Collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV with the ATLAS and CMS Experiments. A measurement of the Higgs boson mass is presented based on the combined data samples of the ATLAS and CMS experiments at the CERN LHC in the H →γγ and H → ZZ→ 4ℓ decay channels. The results are obtained from a simultaneous fit to the reconstructed invariant mass peaks in the two channels and for the two experiments. The measured masses from the individual channels and the two experiments are found to be consistent among themselves. The combined measured mass of the Higgs boson is m_H = 125.09±0.21 (stat.)±0.11 (syst.)GeV.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson in the H → ZZ → l^+l^- τ^+ τ^- decay channel in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. A search is reported for the standard model Higgs boson in the decay mode H to ZZ to tau plus lepton pairs, where the leptons are either electrons or muons, in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 inverse femtobarn collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. No evidence is found for a significant deviation from the background expectation. An upper limit four to twelve times larger than the predicted value is set at 95% confidence level for the product of the standard model Higgs boson production cross section and decay branching fraction in the mass range 190 < m(H) < 600 GeV.
Search for the Higgs boson in the H → WW → lν jj decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a Higgs boson has been performed in the H->WW->lvjj channel in 1.04/fb of pp collision data sqrts = 7 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess of events is observed over the expected background and limits on the Higgs boson production cross section are derived for a Higgs boson mass in the range 240 GeV < mH < 600 GeV. The best sensitivity is reached for mH = 400 GeV, where the 95% confidence level upper bound on the cross section for H->WW production is 3.1 pb, or 2.7 times the Standard Model prediction.
Search for the HH → b b̅ b b̅ process via vector-boson fusion production using proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson pair production via vector-boson fusion (VBF) in the bb̅bb̅ final state is carried out with the ATLAS experiment using 126 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data delivered at √(s) = 13 TeV by the Large Hadron Collider. This search is sensitive to VBF production of additional heavy bosons that may decay into Higgs boson pairs, and in a non-resonant topology it can constrain the quartic coupling between the Higgs bosons and vector bosons. No significant excess relative to the Standard Model expectation is observed, and limits on the production cross-section are set at the 95 % confidence level for a heavy scalar resonance in the context of an extended Higgs sector, and for non-resonant Higgs boson pair production. Interpretation in terms of the coupling between a Higgs boson pair and two vector bosons is also provided: coupling values normalised to the Standard Model expectation of κ_2V < -0.43 and κ_2V > 2.56 are excluded at the 95 % confidence level in data.
Constraints on anomalous HVV couplings from the production of Higgs bosons decaying to τ lepton pairs. A study is presented of anomalous HVV interactions of the Higgs boson, including its CP properties. The study uses Higgs boson candidates produced mainly in vector boson fusion and gluon fusion that subsequently decay to a pair of τ leptons. The data were recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. A matrix element technique is employed for the analysis of anomalous interactions. The results are combined with those from the H→ 4ℓ decay channel presented earlier, yielding the most stringent constraints on anomalous Higgs boson couplings to electroweak vector bosons expressed as effective cross-section fractions and phases: the CP-violating parameter f_a3cos(ϕ_a3)=(0.00 ± 0.27 )×10^-3 and the CP-conserving parameters f_a2cos(ϕ_a2)=(0.08^+1.04_-0.21)×10^-3, f_Λ1cos(ϕ_Λ1)=(0.00^+0.53_-0.09)×10^-3, and f_Λ1^Zγcos(ϕ_Λ1^Zγ)=(0.0^+1.1_-1.3)×10^-3. The current data set does not allow for precise constraints on CP properties in the gluon fusion process. The results are consistent with standard model expectations.
Measurement of electroweak WZ boson production and search for new physics in WZ + two jets events in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A measurement of WZ electroweak (EW) vector boson scattering is presented. The measurement is performed in the leptonic decay modes WZ→ℓνℓ'ℓ', where ℓ, ℓ' = e, μ. The analysis is based on a data sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV at the LHC collected with the CMS detector and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The WZ plus two jet production cross section is measured in fiducial regions with enhanced contributions from EW production and found to be consistent with standard model predictions. The EW WZ production in association with two jets is measured with an observed (expected) significance of 2.2 (2.5) standard deviations. Constraints on charged Higgs boson production and on anomalous quartic gauge couplings in terms of dimension-eight effective field theory operators are also presented.
Search for a light charged Higgs boson decaying to a W boson and a CP-odd Higgs boson in final states with eμμ or μμμ in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for a light charged Higgs boson (H^+) decaying to a W boson and a CP-odd Higgs boson (A) in final states with eμμ or μμμ is performed using data from pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, recorded by the CMS detector at the LHC and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. In this search, it is assumed that the H^+ boson is produced in decays of top quarks, and the A boson decays to two oppositely charged muons. The presence of signals for H^+ boson masses between 100 and 160 GeV and A boson masses between 15 and 75 GeV is investigated. No evidence for the production of the H^+ boson is found. Assuming branching fractions ℬ(H^+→W^+A)= 1 and ℬ(A→μ^+μ^-)=3×10^-4, upper limits at 95% confidence level on the branching fraction of the top quark, ℬ(t→bH^+), of 0.63 to 2.9% are obtained, depending on the masses of the H^+ and A bosons. These are the first limits on ℬ(t→bH^+) in the decay mode of the H^+ boson: H^+→W^+A→W^+μ^+μ^-.
Search for squarks and gluinos with the ATLAS detector in final states with jets and missing transverse momentum using √(s)=8 TeV proton-proton collision data. A search for squarks and gluinos in final states containing high-p_ T jets, missing transverse momentum and no electrons or muons is presented. The data were recorded in 2012 by the ATLAS experiment in √(s)=8 TeV proton–proton collisions at the Large Hadron Collider, with a total integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. No significant excess above the Standard Model expectation is observed. Results are interpreted in a variety of simplified and specific supersymmetry-breaking models assuming that R-parity is conserved and that the lightest neutralino is the lightest supersymmetric particle. An exclusion limit at the 95% confidence level on the mass of the gluino is set at 1330 GeV for a simplified model incorporating only a gluino and the lightest neutralino. For a simplified model involving the strong production of first- and second-generation squarks, squark masses below 850 GeV (440 GeV) are excluded for a massless lightest neutralino, assuming mass degenerate (single light-flavour) squarks. In mSUGRA/CMSSM models with tanβ=30, A_0=-2m_0 and μ> 0, squarks and gluinos of equal mass are excluded for masses below 1700 GeV. Additional limits are set for non-universal Higgs mass models with gaugino mediation and for simplified models involving the pair production of gluinos, each decaying to a top squark and a top quark, with the top squark decaying to a charm quark and a neutralino. These limits extend the region of supersymmetric parameter space excluded by previous searches with the ATLAS detector.
Search for bottom-squark pair production with the ATLAS detector in final states containing Higgs bosons, b-jets and missing transverse momentumSearch for bottom-squark pair production with the ATLAS detector in final states containing Higgs bosons, b-jets and missing transverse momentum. The result of a search for the pair production of the lightest supersymmetric partner of the bottom quark (b̃_1) using 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton data collected at √(s) = 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector is reported. In the supersymmetric scenarios considered both of the bottom-squarks decay into a b-quark and the second-lightest neutralino, b̃_1→ b + χ̃^0_2. Each χ̃^0_2 is assumed to subsequently decay with 100% branching ratio into a Higgs boson (h) like the one in the Standard Model and the lightest neutralino: χ̃^0_2→ h + χ̃^0_1. The χ̃^0_1 is assumed to be the lightest supersymmetric particle (LSP) and is stable. Two signal mass configurations are targeted: the first has a constant LSP mass of 60 GeV; and the second has a constant mass difference between the χ̃^0_2 and χ̃^0_1 of 130 GeV. The final states considered contain no charged leptons, three or more b-jets, and large missing transverse momentum. No significant excess of events over the Standard Model background expectation is observed in any of the signal regions considered. Limits at the 95% confidence level are placed in the supersymmetric models considered, and bottom-squarks with mass up to 1.5 TeV are excluded.
Constraints on new phenomena via Higgs boson couplings and invisible decays with the ATLAS detector. The ATLAS experiment at the LHC has measured the Higgs boson couplings and mass, and searched for invisible Higgs boson decays, using multiple production and decay channels with up to 4.7 fb^-1 of pp collision data at √(s)=7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 at √(s)=8 TeV. In the current study, the measured production and decay rates of the observed Higgs boson in the γγ, ZZ, WW, Zγ, bb, ττ, and μμ decay channels, along with results from the associated production of a Higgs boson with a top-quark pair, are used to probe the scaling of the couplings with mass. Limits are set on parameters in extensions of the Standard Model including a composite Higgs boson, an additional electroweak singlet, and two-Higgs-doublet models. Together with the measured mass of the scalar Higgs boson in the γγ and ZZ decay modes, a lower limit is set on the pseudoscalar Higgs boson mass of m_A>370 GeV in the “hMSSM” simplified Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model. Results from direct searches for heavy Higgs bosons are also interpreted in the hMSSM. Direct searches for invisible Higgs boson decays in the vector-boson fusion and associated production of a Higgs boson with W/Z (Z→ ll, W/Z → jj) modes are statistically combined to set an upper limit on the Higgs boson invisible branching ratio of 0.25. The use of the measured visible decay rates in a more general coupling fit improves the upper limit to 0.23, constraining a Higgs portal model of dark matter.
Search for Neutral Higgs Bosons in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s)∼ 189 GeV. A search for neutral Higgs bosons has been performed with the OPAL detector at LEP, using approximately 170 pb-1 of e+e- collision data collected at sqrt(s) 189GeV. Searches have been performed for the Standard Model (SM) process e+e- to H0Z0 and the MSSM processes e+e- to H0Z0, A0h0. The searches are sensitive to the b b-bar and tau antitau decay modes of the Higgs bosons, and also to the MSSM decay mode h0 to A0A0. OPAL search results at lower centre-of-mass energies have been incorporated in the limits we set, which are valid at the 95% confidence level. For the SM Higgs boson, we obtain a lower mass bound of 91.0 GeV. In the MSSM, our limits are mh>74.8GeV and mA>76.5GeV, assuming tan(beta)>1, that the mixing of the scalar top quarks is either zero or maximal, and that the soft SUSY-breaking masses are 1 TeV. For the case of zero scalar top mixing, we exclude values of tan(beta) between 0.72 and 2.19.
Search for dark matter in association with a Higgs boson decaying to b-quarks in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for dark matter pair production in association with a Higgs boson decaying to a pair of bottom quarks is presented, using 3.2 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The decay of the Higgs boson is reconstructed as a high-momentum bb̅ system with either a pair of small-radius jets, or a single large-radius jet with substructure. The observed data are found to be consistent with the expected backgrounds. Results are interpreted using a simplified model with a Z' gauge boson mediating the interaction between dark matter and the Standard Model as well as a two-Higgs-doublet model containing an additional Z' boson which decays to a Standard Model Higgs boson and a new pseudoscalar Higgs boson, the latter decaying into a pair of dark matter particles.
Measurements of the Higgs boson production and decay rates and constraints on its couplings from a combined ATLAS and CMS analysis of the LHC pp collision data at √(s)= 7 and 8 TeV. Combined ATLAS and CMS measurements of the Higgs boson production and decay rates, as well as constraints on its couplings to vector bosons and fermions, are presented. The combination is based on the analysis of five production processes, namely gluon fusion, vector boson fusion, and associated production with a W or a Z boson or a pair of top quarks, and of the six decay modes H → ZZ, WW, γγ, ττ, bb, and μμ. All results are reported assuming a value of 125.09 GeV for the Higgs boson mass, the result of the combined measurement by the ATLAS and CMS experiments. The analysis uses the CERN LHC proton–proton collision data recorded by the ATLAS and CMS experiments in 2011 and 2012, corresponding to integrated luminosities per experiment of approximately 5 fb^-1 at √(s)=7 TeV and 20 fb^-1 at √(s) = 8 TeV. The Higgs boson production and decay rates measured by the two experiments are combined within the context of three generic parameterisations: two based on cross sections and branching fractions, and one on ratios of coupling modifiers. Several interpretations of the measurements with more model-dependent parameterisations are also given. The combined signal yield relative to the Standard Model prediction is measured to be 1.09 ± 0.11. The combined measurements lead to observed significances for the vector boson fusion production process and for the H →ττ decay of 5.4 and 5.5 standard deviations, respectively. The data are consistent with the Standard Model predictions for all parameterisations considered.
Evidence for the spin-0 nature of the Higgs boson using ATLAS data. Studies of the spin and parity quantum numbers of the Higgs boson are presented, based on proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. The Standard Model spin-parity J^P = 0^+ hypothesis is compared with alternative hypotheses using the Higgs boson decays H →γγ, H → ZZ^* → 4 leptons and H → WW^* → lν lν, as well as the combination of these channels. The analysed dataset corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 20.7 fb^-1 collected at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV. For the H → ZZ^* → 4-lepton decay mode the dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.6 fb^-1 collected at √(s) = 7 TeV is added. The data are compatible with the Standard Model J^P = 0^+ quantum numbers for the Higgs boson, whereas all alternative hypotheses studied in this letter, namely some specific J^P = 0^-, 1^+, 1^-, 2^+ models, are excluded at confidence levels above 97.8%. This exclusion holds independently of the assumptions on the coupling strengths to the Standard Model particles and in the case of the J^P = 2^+ model, of the relative fractions of gluon-fusion and quark-antiquark production of the spin-2 particle. The data thus provide evidence for the spin-0 nature of the Higgs boson, with positive parity being strongly preferred.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair in pp collisions at the LHC. A search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair is presented using data samples corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 5.0 inverse femtobarns (5.1 inverse femtobarns) collected in pp collisions at the center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV (8 TeV). Events are considered where the top-quark pair decays to either one lepton+jets (tt̅→ℓν qq̅' bb̅) or dileptons (tt̅→ℓ^+νℓ^-ν̅b b̅), ℓ being an electron or a muon. The search is optimized for the decay mode H → b b̅. The largest background to the t t̅ H signal is top-quark pair production with additional jets. Artificial neural networks are used to discriminate between signal and background events. Combining the results from the 7 TeV and 8 TeV samples, the observed (expected) limit on the cross section for Higgs boson production in association with top-quark pairs for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV is 5.8 (5.2) times the standard model expectation.
Search for a heavy Higgs boson decaying into a Z boson and another heavy Higgs boson in the ℓℓ bb final state in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy neutral Higgs boson, A, decaying into a Z boson and another heavy Higgs boson, H, is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 from proton–proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016 by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The search considers the Z boson decaying to electrons or muons and the H boson into a pair of b-quarks. No evidence for the production of an A boson is found. Considering each production process separately, the 95% confidence-level upper limits on the pp→ A→ ZH production cross-section times the branching ratio H→ bb are in the range of 14–830 fb for the gluon–gluon fusion process and 26–570 fb for the b-associated process for the mass ranges 130–700 GeV of the H boson and process for the mass ranges 130–700 GeV of the H boson and 230–800 GeV of the A boson. The results are interpreted in the context of the two-Higgs-doublet model.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have collected a total of 2461 pb-1 of e+e- collision data at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209 GeV. The data are used to search for the Standard Model Higgs boson. The search results of the four collaborations are combined and examined in a likelihood test for their consistency with two hypotheses: the background hypothesis and the signal plus background hypothesis. The corresponding confidences have been computed as functions of the hypothetical Higgs boson mass. A lower bound of 114.4 GeV/c2 is established, at the 95% confidence level, on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson. The LEP data are also used to set upper bounds on the HZZ coupling for various assumptions concerning the decay of the Higgs boson.
Search for the bb̅ decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson in associated (W/Z)H production with the ATLAS detector. A search for the bb̅ decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson is performed with the ATLAS experiment using the full dataset recorded at the LHC in Run 1. The integrated luminosities used from pp collisions at √(s)=7 and 8 TeV are 4.7 and 20.3 fb^-1, respectively. The processes considered are associated (W/Z)H production, where W→ eν/μν, Z→ ee/μμ and Z→νν. The observed (expected) deviation from the background-only hypothesis corresponds to a significance of 1.4 (2.6) standard deviations and the ratio of the measured signal yield to the Standard Model expectation is found to be μ = 0.52 ± 0.32 (stat.)± 0.24 (syst.) for a Higgs boson mass of 125.36 GeV. The analysis procedure is validated by a measurement of the yield of (W/Z)Z production with Z→ bb̅ in the same final states as for the Higgs boson search, from which the ratio of the observed signal yield to the Standard Model expectation is found to be 0.74 ± 0.09 (stat.)± 0.14 (syst.).
Search for a Higgs boson in the decay channel H → ZZ^(*)→ qq̅l^-l^+ in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying into two Z bosons with subsequent decay into a final state containing two quark jets and two leptons, H → ZZ^(*)→ qq̅l^-l^+ is presented. Results are based on data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.6 inverse femtobarns of proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. In order to discriminate between signal and background events, kinematic and topological quantities, including the angular spin correlations of the decay products, are employed. Events are further classified according to the probability of the jets to originate from quarks of light or heavy flavor or from gluons. No evidence for the Higgs boson is found, and upper limits on its production cross section are determined for a Higgs boson of mass between 130 and 600 GeV.
Search for invisible decays of Higgs bosons in the vector boson fusion and associated ZH production modes. A search for invisible decays of Higgs bosons is performed using the vector boson fusion and associated ZH production modes. In the ZH mode, the Z boson is required to decay to a pair of charged leptons or a bb̅ quark pair. The searches use the 8 TeV pp collision dataset collected by the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of up to 19.7 inverse femtobarns. Certain channels include data from 7 TeV collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 inverse femtobarns. The searches are sensitive to non-standard-model invisible decays of the recently observed Higgs boson, as well as additional Higgs bosons with similar production modes and large invisible branching fractions. In all channels, the observed data are consistent with the expected standard model backgrounds. Limits are set on the production cross section times invisible branching fraction, as a function of the Higgs boson mass, for the vector boson fusion and ZH production modes. By combining all channels, and assuming standard model Higgs boson cross sections and acceptances, the observed (expected) upper limit on the invisible branching fraction at m_H=125 GeV is found to be 0.58 (0.44) at 95% confidence level. We interpret this limit in terms of a Higgs-portal model of dark matter interactions.
Search for heavy resonances decaying into two Higgs bosons or into a Higgs boson and a W or Z boson in proton-proton collisions at 13 TeV. A search is presented for massive narrow resonances decaying either into two Higgs bosons, or into a Higgs boson and a W or Z boson. The decay channels considered are HH→bbτ^+τ^- and VH→qqτ^+τ^-, where H denotes the Higgs boson, and V denotes the W or Z boson. This analysis is based on a data sample of proton-proton collisions collected at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV by the CMS Collaboration, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. For the TeV-scale mass resonances considered, substructure techniques provide ways to differentiate among the hadronization products from vector boson decays to quarks, Higgs boson decays to bottom quarks, and quark- or gluon-induced jets. Reconstruction techniques are used that have been specifically optimized to select events in which the tau lepton pair is highly boosted. The observed data are consistent with standard model expectations and upper limits are set at 95% confidence level on the product of cross section and branching fraction for resonance masses between 0.9 and 4.0 TeV. Exclusion limits are set in the context of bulk radion and graviton models: spin-0 radion resonances are excluded below a mass of 2.7 TeV at 95% confidence level. In the spin-1 heavy vector triplet framework, mass-degenerate W' and Z' resonances with dominant couplings to the standard model gauge bosons are excluded below a mass of 2.8 TeV at 95% confidence level. There are the first limits for these decay channels at √(s)= 13 TeV.
Search for resonant and nonresonant Higgs boson pair production in the bblnulnu final state in proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s) = 13 TeV. Searches for resonant and nonresonant pair-produced Higgs bosons (HH) decaying respectively into ℓνℓν, through either W or Z bosons, and b b̅ are presented. The analyses are based on a sample of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Data and predictions from the standard model are in agreement within uncertainties. For the standard model HH hypothesis, the data exclude at 95% confidence level a product of the production cross section and branching fraction larger than 72 fb, corresponding to 79 times the prediction, consistent with expectations. Constraints are placed on different scenarios considering anomalous couplings, which could affect the rate and kinematics of HH production. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the production cross section of narrow-width spin-0 and spin-2 particles decaying to Higgs boson pairs, the latter produced with minimal gravity-like coupling.
Search for Neutral Higgs Bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model in e^+ e^- Interactions at √(s)=192-202 GeV. A search for the lightest neutral CP-even and the neutral CP-odd Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model is performed using 233.2 pb-1 of integrated luminosity collected with the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies 192-202 GeV. No signal is observed and lower mass limits are given as a function of tan(beta) for two scalar top mixing hypotheses. For tan(beta) greater than 0.8, they are mh > 83.4 GeV and mA > 83.8 GeV at 95 % confidence level.
Search for dark photons in Higgs boson production via vector boson fusion in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for a Higgs boson that is produced via vector boson fusion and that decays to an undetected particle and an isolated photon. The search is performed by the CMS Collaboration at the LHC, using a data set corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 130 fb^-1, recorded at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV in 2016-2018. No significant excess of events above the expectation from the standard model background is found. The results are interpreted in the context of a theoretical model in which the undetected particle is a massless dark photon. An upper limit is set on the product of the cross section for production via vector boson fusion and the branching fraction for such a Higgs boson decay, as a function of the Higgs boson mass. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, assuming the standard model production rates, the observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper limit on the branching fraction is 3.4 (2.7)%. This is the first search for such decays in the vector boson fusion channel.
Search for resonant pair production of Higgs bosons in the bbZZ channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for the production of a narrow-width resonance decaying into a pair of Higgs bosons decaying into the bbZZ channel is presented. The analysis is based on data collected with the CMS detector during 2016, in proton-proton collisions at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The final states considered are the ones where one of the Z bosons decays into a pair of muons or electrons, and the other Z boson decays either to a pair of quarks or a pair of neutrinos. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are placed on the production of narrow-width spin-0 or spin-2 particles decaying to a pair of Higgs bosons, in models with and without an extended Higgs sector. For a resonance mass range between 260 and 1000 GeV, limits on the production cross section times branching fraction of a spin-0 and spin-2 resonance range from 0.1 to 5.0 pb and 0.1 to 3.6 pb, respectively. These results set limits in parameter space in bulk Randall-Sundrum radion, Kaluza-Klein excitation of the graviton, and N2HDM models. For specific choices of parameters the N2HDM can be excluded in a mass range between 360 and 620 GeV for a resonance decaying to two Higgs bosons. This is the first search for Higgs boson resonant pair production in the bbZZ channel.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies between 130 and 183 GeV. A search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons is performed with the L3 detector at LEP using data collected at centre-of-mass energies from , corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 88.3 . The Higgs decays into a charm and a strange quark or into a tau lepton and its associated neutrino are considered. The observed candidates are consistent with the expectations from Standard Model background processes. A lower limit of 57.5 on the charged Higgs mass is derived at 95% CL, independent of the decay branching ratio Br(H^±τν).
Search for the standard model Higgs boson produced through vector boson fusion and decaying to bb̅. A first search is reported for a standard model Higgs boson (H) that is produced through vector boson fusion and decays to a bottom-quark pair. Two data samples, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 19.8 fb^-1 and 18.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV were selected for this channel at the CERN LHC. The observed significance in these data samples for a H → bb̅ signal at a mass of 125 GeV is 2.2 standard deviations, whilst the expected significance is 0.8 standard deviations. The fitted signal strength μ=σ/σ_SM=  2.8 ^+1.6_-1.4. The combination of this result with other CMS searches for the Higgs boson decaying to a b-quark pair, yields a signal strength of 1.0 ± 0.4, corresponding to a signal significance of 2.6 standard deviations for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV.
Limits on the production of the Standard Model Higgs Boson in pp collisions at √(s) =7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) running at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV is reported, based on a total integrated luminosity of up to 40 pb-1 collected by the ATLAS detector in 2010. Several Higgs boson decay channels: H →γγ, H → ZZ^(*)→ llll, H → ZZ → llνν, H → ZZ → llqq, H → WW^(*)→ lνlν and H → WW → lνqq (l is e, μ) are combined in a mass range from 110 GeV to 600 GeV. The highest sensitivity is achieved in the mass range between 160 GeV and 170 GeV, where the expected 95% CL exclusion sensitivity is at Higgs boson production cross sections 2.3 times the Standard Model prediction. Upper limits on the cross section for its production are determined. Models with a fourth generation of heavy leptons and quarks with Standard Model-like couplings to the Higgs boson are also investigated and are excluded for a Higgs boson mass in the range from 140 GeV to 185 GeV.
Search for pair-produced leptoquarks in e^+e^- interactions at √(s)≃ 183 GeV. A search for pair-produced leptoquarks has been performed using a sample of e+e- collision events collected by the OPAL detector at LEP at e+e- centre-of-mass energies of about 183 GeV. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 55.9 pb-1. The leptoquarks were assumed to be produced via couplings to the photon and the Z0 and then to decay within a single fermion generation. No evidence for contributions from leptoquark pair production processes was observed. Lower limits on scalar and vector leptoquark masses are obtained. The existing limits are improved in the region of large decay branching ratio to quark-neutrino.
Measurement of inclusive and differential cross sections in the H → ZZ^* → 4ℓ decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Inclusive and differential fiducial cross sections of Higgs boson production in proton-proton collisions are measured in the H → ZZ^* → 4ℓ decay channel. The proton-proton collision data were produced at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. The inclusive fiducial cross section in the H → ZZ^* → 4ℓ decay channel is measured to be 3.62 ± 0.50 (stat) ^+0.25_-0.20 (sys) fb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction of 2.91 ± 0.13 fb. The cross section is also extrapolated to the total phase space including all Standard Model Higgs boson decays. Several differential fiducial cross sections are measured for observables sensitive to the Higgs boson production and decay, including kinematic distributions of jets produced in association with the Higgs boson. Good agreement is found between data and Standard Model predictions. The results are used to put constraints on anomalous Higgs boson interactions with Standard Model particles, using the pseudo-observable extension to the kappa-framework.
Precision electroweak measurements on the Z resonance. We report on the final electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the Z resonance by the experiments operating at the electron-positron colliders SLC and LEP. The data consist of 17 million Z decays accumulated by the ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL experiments at LEP, and 600 thousand Z decays by the SLD experiment using a polarised beam at SLC. The measurements include cross-sections, forward-backward asymmetries and polarised asymmetries. The mass and width of the Z boson, and , and its couplings to fermions, for example the ρ parameter and the effective electroweak mixing angle, are precisely measured. The number of light neutrino species is determined to be 2.9840+/-0.0082. The results are compared to the predictions of the Standard Model. Electroweak radiative corrections beyond the running of the QED and QCD coupling constants are observed with a significance of five standard deviations, and in agreement with the Standard Model. Of the many Z-pole measurements, the forward-backward asymmetry in b-quark production shows the largest difference with respect to its Standard Model expectation, at the level of 2.8 standard deviations. Through radiative corrections evaluated in the framework of the Standard Model, the masses of the top quark and the W Boson are predicted. These indirect constraints are compared to the direct measurements, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model. Using in addition the direct measurements of and , the mass of the as yet unobserved Standard Model Higgs boson is predicted.
Search for a standard model-like Higgs boson in the mass range between 70 and 110 GeV in the diphoton final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 8 and 13 TeV. The results of a search for a standard model-like Higgs boson in the mass range between 70 and 110 GeV decaying into two photons are presented. The analysis uses the data set collected with the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions during the 2012 and 2016 LHC running periods. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 (35.9) fb^-1 at √(s) =8 (13) TeV. The expected and observed 95% confidence level upper limits on the product of the cross section and branching fraction into two photons are presented. The observed upper limit for the 2012 (2016) data set ranges from 129 (161) fb to 31 (26) fb. The statistical combination of the results from the analyses of the two data sets in the common mass range between 80 and 110 GeV yields an upper limit on the product of the cross section and branching fraction, normalized to that for a standard model-like Higgs boson, ranging from 0.7 to 0.2, with two notable exceptions: one in the region around the Z boson peak, where the limit rises to 1.1, which may be due to the presence of Drell-Yan dielectron production where electrons could be misidentified as isolated photons, and a second due to an observed excess with respect to the standard model prediction, which is maximal for a mass hypothesis of 95.3 GeV with a local (global) significance of 2.8 (1.3) standard deviations.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson.
Reconstruction and identification of boosted di-τ systems in a search for Higgs boson pairs using 13 TeV proton-proton collision data in ATLAS. In this paper, a new technique for reconstructing and identifying hadronically decaying τ^+τ^- pairs with a large Lorentz boost, referred to as the di-τ tagger, is developed and used for the first time in the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. A benchmark di-τ tagging selection is employed in the search for resonant Higgs boson pair production, where one Higgs boson decays into a boosted bb̅ pair and the other into a boosted τ^+τ^- pair, with two hadronically decaying τ-leptons in the final state. Using 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, the efficiency of the di-τ tagger is determined and the background with quark- or gluon-initiated jets misidentified as di-τ objects is estimated. The search for a heavy, narrow, scalar resonance produced via gluon-gluon fusion and decaying into two Higgs bosons is carried out in the mass range 1-3 TeV using the same dataset. No deviations from the Standard Model predictions are observed, and 95% confidence-level exclusion limits are set on this model.
Search for the neutral Higgs boson from Z^0 decay.
Combination of searches for Higgs boson pair production in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. This Letter describes a search for Higgs boson pair production using the combined results from four final states: bbγγ, bbττ, bbbb, and bbVV, where V represents a W or Z boson. The search is performed using data collected in 2016 by the CMS experiment from LHC proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Limits are set on the Higgs boson pair production cross section. A 95% confidence level observed (expected) upper limit on the nonresonant production cross section is set at 22.2 (12.8) times the standard model value. A search for narrow resonances decaying to Higgs boson pairs is also performed in the mass range 250-3000 GeV. No evidence for a signal is observed, and upper limits are set on the resonance production cross section.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in events with two bottom quarks and two tau leptons in proton–proton collisions at √(s) =13TeV. A search for the production of Higgs boson pairs in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV is presented, using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. Events with one Higgs boson decaying into two bottom quarks and the other decaying into two τ leptons are explored to investigate both resonant and nonresonant production mechanisms. The data are found to be consistent, within uncertainties, with the standard model background predictions. For resonant production, upper limits at the 95% confidence level are set on the production cross section for Higgs boson pairs as a function of the hypothesized resonance mass and are interpreted in the context of the minimal supersymmetric standard model. For nonresonant production, upper limits on the production cross section constrain the parameter space for anomalous Higgs boson couplings. The observed (expected) upper limit at 95% confidence level corresponds to about 30 (25) times the prediction of the standard model.
Search for a massive resonance decaying into a Higgs boson and a W or Z boson in hadronic final states in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for a massive resonance decaying into a standard-model-like Higgs boson (H) and a W or Z boson is reported. The analysis is performed on a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1, collected in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV with the CMS detector at the LHC. Signal events, in which the decay products of Higgs, W, or Z bosons at high Lorentz boost are contained within single reconstructed jets, are identified using jet substructure techniques, including the tagging of b hadrons. This is the first search for heavy resonances decaying into HW or HZ resulting in an all-jet final state, as well as the first application of jet substructure techniques to identify H → W W^* → 4q decays at high Lorentz boost. No significant signal is observed and limits are set at 95% confidence level on the production cross section of W' and Z' in a model with mass-degenerate charged and neutral spin-1 resonances. Resonance masses are excluded for W' in the interval [1.0, 1.6] TeV, for Z' in the intervals [1.0, 1.1] and [1.3,1.5] TeV, and for mass-degenerate W' and Z' in the interval [1.0, 1.7] TeV.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at energies up to √(s) = 189 GeV. The data collected at centre-of-mass energies of 188.6 GeV by ALEPH at LEP, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 176.2 pb-1, are analysed in a search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons H+/-. Three analyses are employed to select the taunutaunu, taunucs and cscs final states. No evidence for a signal is found. Upper limits are set on the production cross section as a function of the branching fraction BR(H+ to tau nu) and of the mass M(H+), assuming that the sum of the branching ratios is equal to one. In the framework of a two-Higgs-doublet model, charged Higgs bosons with masses below 65.4 GeV/c2 are excluded at 95% confidence level independently of the decay mode.
Inclusive Σ^+ and Σ^0 Production in Hadronic Z Decays. We report on measurements of the inclusive production rate of Σ^+ and Σ^0 baryons in hadronic Z decays collected with the L3 detector at LEP. The Σ^+ baryons are detected through the decay Σ^+ → pπ^0, while the Σ^0 baryons are detected via the decay mode Σ^0 →Λγ. The average numbers of Σ^+ and Σ^0 per hadronic Z decay are measured to be: < N_Σ^+> + < N_Σ̅^+> = 0.114 ± 0.011_± 0.009_
Measurement of the inclusive and differential Higgs boson production cross sections in the leptonic WW decay mode at √(s) = 13 TeV. Measurement of the fiducial inclusive and differential production cross sections of the Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV are performed using events where the Higgs boson decays into a pair of W bosons that subsequently decay into a final state with an electron, a muon, and a pair of neutrinos. The analysis is based on data collected with the CMS detector at the LHC during 2016-2018, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. Production cross sections are measured as a function of the transverse momentum of the Higgs boson and the associated jet multiplicity. The Higgs boson signal is extracted and simultaneously unfolded to correct for selection efficiency and resolution effects using maximum-likelihood fits to the observed distributions in data. The integrated fiducial cross section is measured to be 86.5 ± 9.5 fb, consistent with the Standard Model expectation of 82.5 ± 4.2 fb. No significant deviation from the Standard Model expectations is observed in the differential measurements.
Search for nonresonant Higgs boson pair production in final states with two bottom quarks and two photons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for nonresonant production of Higgs boson pairs via gluon-gluon and vector boson fusion processes in final states with two bottom quarks and two photons is presented. The search uses data from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV recorded with the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. No significant deviation from the background-only hypothesis is observed. An upper limit at 95% confidence level is set on the product of the Higgs boson pair production cross section and branching fraction into bb̅γγ. The observed (expected) upper limit is determined to be 0.67 (0.45) fb, which corresponds to 7.7 (5.2) times the standard model prediction. This search has the highest sensitivity to Higgs boson pair production to date. Assuming all other Higgs boson couplings are equal to their values in the standard model, the observed coupling modifiers of the trilinear Higgs boson self-coupling κ_λ and the coupling between a pair of Higgs bosons and a pair of vector bosons c_2V are constrained within the ranges -3.3 < κ_λ  < 8.5 and -1.3 < c_2V < 3.5 at 95% confidence level. Constraints on κ_λ are also set by combining this analysis with a search for single Higgs bosons decaying to two photons, produced in association with top quark-antiquark pairs, and by performing a simultaneous fit of κ_λ and the top quark Yukawa coupling modifier κ_t.
Search for top quark decays t → qH with H →γγ using the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for flavour-changing neutral currents in the decay of a top quark to an up-type (c, u) quark and a Higgs boson, where the Higgs boson decays to two photons. The proton-proton collision data set used corresponds to 4.7 fb^-1 at √(s) = 7 TeV and 20.3 fb^-1 at √(s) = 8 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. Top quark pair events are searched for in which one top quark decays to qH  and the other decays to bW. Both  the hadronic and the leptonic decay modes of the W boson are used. No significant signal is observed and an upper limit is set on the t→ qH branching ratio of 0.79% at the 95% confidence level. The corresponding limit on the tqH coupling combination √(λ_tcH^2 + λ_tuH^2) is 0.17.
Search for WH production with a light Higgs boson decaying to prompt electron-jets in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is performed for WH production with a light Higgs boson decaying to hidden-sector particles resulting in clusters of collimated electrons, known as electron-jets. The search is performed with 2.04 fb-1 of data collected in 2011 with the ATLAS detector at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. One event satisfying the signal selection criteria is observed, which is consistent with the expected background rate. Limits on the product of the WH production cross section and the branching ratio of a Higgs boson decaying to prompt electron-jets are calculated as a function of a Higgs boson mass in the range from 100 GeV to 140 GeV.
Search for a Higgs boson decaying into γ^*γ→ℓℓγ with low dilepton mass in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search is described for a Higgs boson decaying into two photons, one of which has an internal conversion to a muon or an electron pair (ℓℓγ). The analysis is performed using proton-proton collision data recorded with the CMS detector at the LHC at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. The events selected have an opposite-sign muon or electron pair and a high transverse momentum photon. No excess above background has been found in the three-body invariant mass range 120 < m_ℓℓγ < 150 GeV, and limits have been derived for the Higgs boson production cross section times branching fraction for the decay H→γ^* γ→ℓℓγ, where the dilepton invariant mass is less than 20 GeV. For a Higgs boson with m_H = 125 GeV, a 95% confidence level (CL) exclusion observed (expected) limit is 7.7 (6.4^+3.1_-2.0) times the standard model prediction. Additionally, an upper limit at 95% CL on the branching fraction of H→(J/ψ)γ for the 125 GeV Higgs boson is set at 1.5×10^-3.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons decaying into four taus at LEP2. A search for the production and non-standard decay of a Higgs boson, h, into four taus through intermediate pseudoscalars, a, is conducted on 683 pb-1 of data collected by the ALEPH experiment at centre-of-mass energies from 183 to 209 GeV. No excess of events above background is observed, and exclusion limits are placed on the combined production cross section times branching ratio, ξ^2 = σ(e+e- –> Zh)/σ_SM(e+e- –> Zh) x B(h –> aa)x B(a –> τ^+τ^-)^2. For mh < 107 GeV/c2 and 4 < ma < 10 GeV/c2, ξ^2 > 1 is excluded at the 95% confidence level.
Search for dark matter in events with a hadronically decaying vector boson and missing transverse momentum in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for dark matter (DM) particles produced in association with a hadronically decaying vector boson is performed using pp collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1, recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. This analysis improves on previous searches for processes with hadronic decays of W and Z bosons in association with large missing transverse momentum (mono-W/Z searches) due to the larger dataset and further optimization of the event selection and signal region definitions. In addition to the mono-W/Z search, the as yet unexplored hypothesis of a new vector boson Z^' produced in association with dark matter is considered (mono-Z^' search). No significant excess over the Standard Model prediction is observed. The results of the mono-W/Z search are interpreted in terms of limits on invisible Higgs boson decays into dark matter particles, constraints on the parameter space of the simplified vector-mediator model and generic upper limits on the visible cross sections for W/Z+DM production. The results of the mono-Z^' search are shown in the framework of several simplified-model scenarios involving DM production in association with the Z^' boson.
Search for lepton flavour violating decays of a neutral heavy Higgs boson to μτ and eτ in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for lepton flavour violating decays of a neutral non-standard-model Higgs boson in the μτ and eτ decay modes is presented. The search is based on proton-proton collisions at a center of mass energy √(s)= 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 . The τ leptons are reconstructed in the leptonic and hadronic decay modes. No signal is observed in the mass range 200-900 GeV. At 95% confidence level, the observed (expected) upper limits on the production cross section multiplied by the branching fraction vary from 51.9 (57.4) fb to 1.6 (2.1) fb for the μτ and from 94.1 (91.6) fb to 2.3 (2.3) fb for the eτ decay modes.
Search for Higgs and Z boson decays to J/ψ or Υ pairs in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeVSearch for Higgs and Z boson decays to J/ψ or Υ pairs in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for decays of the Higgs and Z boson to pairs of J/ψ or Υ(nS) (n=1,2,3) mesons, with their subsequent decay to μ^+μ^- pairs, is presented. The analysis uses data from proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the LHC in 2017 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 37.5 fb^-1. While an observation of such a decay with this sample would indicate the presence of physics beyond the standard model, no significant excess is observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are placed on the branching fractions of these decays. In the J/ψ pair channel, the limits are 1.8 × 10^-3 and 2.2 × 10^-6 for the Higgs and Z boson, respectively, while in the combined Υ(nS) pair channel, the limits are 1.4 × 10^-3 and 1.5 × 10^-6, respectively, when the mesons from the Higgs and Z boson decay are assumed to be unpolarized. When fully longitudinal and transverse polarizations are considered the limits reduce by about 22-29% and increase by about 10-13%, respectively.
A measurement of the τ^-→μ^-ν_μν_τ branching ratio. The tau /sup -/ to mu /sup -/ nu /sub mu / nu /sub tau / branching ratio has been measured using data collected from 1990 to 1995 by the OPAL detector at the LEP collider. The resulting value of B( tau /sup -/ to mu /sup -/ nu /sub mu / nu /sub tau /) = 0.1734 +or- 0.0009 (stat) +or- 0.0006(syst) has been used in conjunction with other OPAL measurements to test lepton universality, yielding the coupling constant ratios g/sub mu //g/sub e/ = 1.0005 +or- 0.0044 and g/sub tau //g/sub e/ = 1.0031 +or- 0.0048, in good agreement with the Standard Model prediction of unity. A value for the Michel parameter eta = 0.004 +or- 0.037 has also been determined and used to find a limit for the mass of the charged Higgs boson, m/sub H/+or- > 1.28 tan beta , in the minimal supersymmetric standard model. (23 refs).CER 4095216 BASE L 13
Measurement of the e^+e^-→ ZZ Production Cross Section at Centre-of-Mass Energies of 183 and 189 GeV. The ee -> ZZ cross section at sqrt(s)=182.7 and 188.6 GeV has been measured using the ALEPH detector. The analysis covers all of the visible ZZ final states and yields cross section measurements of sigma_ZZ(182.7 GeV) = 0.11 +- (0.16,0.11) (stat.) +- 0.04 (syst.) pb and sigma_ZZ(188.6 GeV) = 0.67 +- 0.13 (stat.) +- 0.04 (syst.) pb consistent with the Standard Model expectations.
Search for a new scalar resonance decaying to a pair of Z bosons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for a new scalar resonance decaying to a pair of Z bosons is performed in the mass range from 130 GeV to 3 TeV, and for various width scenarios. The analysis is based on proton-proton collisions recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The Z boson pair decays are reconstructed using the 4ℓ, 2ℓ2q, and 2ℓ2ν final states, where ℓ = e or μ. Both gluon fusion and electroweak production of the scalar resonance are considered, with a free parameter describing their relative cross sections. A dedicated categorization of events, based on the kinematic properties of associated jets, and matrix element techniques are employed for an optimal signal and background separation. A description of the interference between signal and background amplitudes for a resonance of an arbitrary width is included. No significant excess of events with respect to the standard model expectation is observed and limits are set on the product of the cross section for a new scalar boson and the branching fraction for its decay to ZZ for a large range of masses and widths.
Search for charged Higgs bosons decaying into a top and a bottom quark in the all-jet final state of pp collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for charged Higgs bosons (H^±) decaying into a top and a bottom quark in the all-jet final states is presented. The analysis uses LHC proton-proton collision data recorded with the CMS detector in 2016 at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. No significant excess is observed above the expected background. Model-independent upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the product of the H^± production cross section and branching fraction in two scenarios. For production in association with a top quark, limits of 21.3 to 0.007 pb are obtained for H^± masses in the range of 0.2 to 3 TeV. Combining this with data from a search in leptonic final states results in improved limits of 9.25 to 0.005 pb. The complementary s-channel production of an H^± is investigated in the mass range of 0.8 to 3 TeV and the corresponding upper limits are 4.5 to 0.023 pb. These results are interpreted using different minimal supersymmetric extensions of the standard model.
Constraints on the Higgs boson width from off-shell production and decay to Z-boson pairs. Constraints are presented on the total width of the recently discovered Higgs boson, Gamma_H, using its relative on-shell and off-shell production and decay rates to a pair of Z bosons, where one Z boson decays to an electron or muon pair, and the other to an electron, muon, or neutrino pair. The analysis is based on the data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2011 and 2012, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 inverse-femtobarns at a centre-of-mass energy √(s) = 7 TeV and 19.7 inverse-femtobarns at √(s) = 8 TeV. A simultaneous maximum likelihood fit to the measured kinematic distributions near the resonance peak and above the Z-boson pair production threshold leads to an upper limit on the Higgs boson width of Γ_H less than 22 MeV at a 95% confidence level, which is 5.4 times the expected value in the standard model at the measured mass.
Search for invisible decays of a Higgs boson using vector-boson fusion in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a Higgs boson produced via vector-boson fusion and decaying into invisible particles is presented, using 20.3 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 125 GeV, assuming the Standard Model production cross section, an upper bound of 0.28 is set on the branching fraction of H→ invisible at 95% confidence level, where the expected upper limit is 0.31. The results are interpreted in models of Higgs-portal dark matter where the branching fraction limit is converted into upper bounds on the dark-matter–nucleon scattering cross section as a function of the dark-matter particle mass, and compared to results from the direct dark-matter detection experiments.
Search for Higgs boson decays into two new low-mass spin-0 particles in  the 4b channel with the ATLAS detector using pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV. This paper describes a search for beyond the Standard Model decays of the Higgs boson into a pair of new spin-0 particles subsequently decaying into b-quark pairs, H → aa → (bb̅)(bb̅), using proton-proton collision data collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider at center-of-mass energy √(s)=13 TeV. This search focuses on the regime where the decay products are collimated and in the range 15 ≤ m_a ≤ 30 GeV and is complementary to a previous search in the same final state targeting the regime where the decay products are well separated and in the range 20 ≤ m_a ≤ 60 GeV. A novel strategy for the identification of the a → bb̅ decays is deployed to enhance the efficiency for topologies with small separation angles. The search is performed with 36 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity collected in 2015 and 2016 and sets upper limits on the production cross-section of H → aa → (bb̅)(bb̅), where the Higgs boson is produced in association with a Z boson.
Combined measurements of Higgs boson couplings in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. Combined measurements of the production and decay rates of the Higgs boson, as well as its couplings to vector bosons and fermions, are presented. The analysis uses the LHC proton-proton collision data set recorded with the CMS detector in 2016 at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 . The combination is based on analyses targeting the five main Higgs boson production mechanisms (gluon fusion, vector boson fusion, and associated production with a W or Z boson, or a top quark-antiquark pair) and the following decay modes: H→γγ, ZZ, WW, ττ, bb, and μμ. Searches for invisible Higgs boson decays are also considered. The best-fit ratio of the signal yield to the standard model expectation is measured to be μ= 1.17 ± 0.10, assuming a Higgs boson mass of 125.09 GeV. Additional results are given for parametrizations with varying assumptions on the scaling behavior of the different production and decay modes, including generic ones based on ratios of cross sections and branching fractions or coupling modifiers. The results are compatible with the standard model predictions in all parametrizations considered. In addition, constraints are placed on various two Higgs doublet models.
Search for production of four top quarks in final states with same-sign or multiple leptons in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. The standard model (SM) production of four top quarks (tt̅tt̅) in proton-proton collision is studied by the CMS Collaboration. The data sample, collected during the 2016-2018 data taking of the LHC, corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The events are required to contain two same-sign charged leptons (electrons or muons) or at least three leptons, and jets. The observed and expected significances for the tt̅tt̅ signal are respectively 2.6 and 2.7 standard deviations, and the tt̅tt̅ cross section is measured to be 12.6^+5.8_-5.2 fb. The results are used to constrain the Yukawa coupling of the top quark to the Higgs boson, y_t, yielding a limit of | y_t/y_t^SM | < 1.7 at 95% confidence level, where y_t^SM is the SM value of y_t. They are also used to constrain the oblique parameter of the Higgs boson in an effective field theory framework, Ĥ < 0.12. Limits are set on the production of a heavy scalar or pseudoscalar boson in Type-II two-Higgs-doublet and simplified dark matter models, with exclusion limits reaching 350-470 GeV and 350-550 GeV for scalar and pseudoscalar bosons, respectively. Upper bounds are also set on couplings of the top quark to new light particles.
Search for invisible decays of a Higgs boson produced in association with a Z boson in ATLAS. A search for evidencevector-boson of invisible-particle decay modes of a Higgs boson produced in association with a Z boson at the Large Hadron Collider is presented. No deviation from the Standard Model expectation is observed in 4.5 fb^−1 (20.3 fb^−1) of 7 (8) TeV pp collision data collected by the ATLAS experiment. Assuming the Standard Model rate for ZH production, an upper limit of 75%, at the 95% confidence level is set on the branching ratio to invisible-particle decay modes of the Higgs boson at a mass of 125.5 GeV. The limit on the branching ratio is also interpreted in terms of an upper limit on the allowed dark matter–nucleon scattering cross section within a Higgs-portal dark matter scenario. Limits are also set on an additional neutral Higgs boson, in the mass range 110 < m_H < 400 GeV, produced in association with a Z boson and decaying to invisible particles.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at energies up to √(s) = 189 GeV. The data collected at centre-of-mass energies of 188.6 GeV by ALEPH at LEP, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 176.2 pb-1, are analysed in a search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons H+/-. Three analyses are employed to select the taunutaunu, taunucs and cscs final states. No evidence for a signal is found. Upper limits are set on the production cross section as a function of the branching fraction BR(H+ to tau nu) and of the mass M(H+), assuming that the sum of the branching ratios is equal to one. In the framework of a two-Higgs-doublet model, charged Higgs bosons with masses below 65.4 GeV/c2 are excluded at 95% confidence level independently of the decay mode.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in the H^± → τ^±ν_τ decay channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for charged Higgs bosons in the H^±→τ^±ν_τ decay mode in the hadronic final state and in final states with an electron or muon. The search is based on proton-proton collision data recorded by the CMS experiment in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The results agree with the background expectation from the standard model. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the production cross section times branching fraction to τ^±ν_τ for an H^± in the mass range of 80 GeV to 3 TeV, including the region near the top quark mass. The observed limit ranges from 6 pb at 80 GeV to 5 fb at 3 TeV. The limits are interpreted in the context of the minimal supersymmetric standard model m_h^mod- scenario.
Search for a Standard Model Higgs boson in the mass range 200-600 GeV in the H → ZZ → l^+l^-qq̅ decay channel with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy Standard Model Higgs boson decaying via H → ZZ → l^+l^-qq̅, where l=e or μ, is presented. The search uses a data set of pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb^-1 collected in 2011 by the ATLAS detector at the CERN LHC. No significant excess of events above the estimated background is found. Upper limits at 95% confidence level on the production cross section of a Higgs boson with a mass in the range between 200 and 600 GeV are derived. A Standard Model Higgs boson with a mass in the range 300 ≤ m_H ≤ 322 GeV or 353 ≤ m_H ≤ 410 GeV is excluded at 95% CL. The corresponding expected exclusion range is 351 ≤ m_H ≤ 404 GeV at 95% CL.
Search for production of four top quarks in final states with same-sign or multiple leptons in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. The standard model (SM) production of four top quarks (tt̅tt̅) in proton-proton collision is studied by the CMS Collaboration. The data sample, collected during the 2016-2018 data taking of the LHC, corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The events are required to contain two same-sign charged leptons (electrons or muons) or at least three leptons, and jets. The observed and expected significances for the tt̅tt̅ signal are respectively 2.6 and 2.7 standard deviations, and the tt̅tt̅ cross section is measured to be 12.6^+5.8_-5.2 fb. The results are used to constrain the Yukawa coupling of the top quark to the Higgs boson, y_t, yielding a limit of | y_t/y_t^SM | < 1.7 at 95% confidence level, where y_t^SM is the SM value of y_t. They are also used to constrain the oblique parameter of the Higgs boson in an effective field theory framework, Ĥ < 0.12. Limits are set on the production of a heavy scalar or pseudoscalar boson in Type-II two-Higgs-doublet and simplified dark matter models, with exclusion limits reaching 350-470 GeV and 350-550 GeV for scalar and pseudoscalar bosons, respectively. Upper bounds are also set on couplings of the top quark to new light particles.
Search for the Single Production of Doubly-Charged Higgs Bosons and Constraints on their Couplings from Bhabha Scattering. A search for single production of doubly-charged Higgs bosons has been performed using 600.7 pb^-1 of e+e- collision data with sqrt(s)=189–209GeV collected by the OPAL detector at LEP. No evidence for the existence of H++/– is observed. Upper limits on the Yukawa coupling of the H++/– to like-signed electron pairs are derived. Additionally, indirect constraints on the Yukawa coupling from Bhabha scattering, where the H++/– would contribute via t-channel exchange, are derived for M(H++/–) < 2TeV. These are the first results for both a single production search and constraints from Bhabha scattering reported from LEP.
Searches for Higgs bosons.
A search for prompt lepton-jets in pp collisions at √(s)= 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for a new, light boson with a mass of about 1 GeV and decaying promptly to jets of collimated electrons and/or muons (lepton-jets). The analysis is performed with 20.3 fb ^-1, of data collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider in proton–proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. Events are required to contain at least two lepton-jets. This study finds no statistically significant deviation from predictions of the Standard Model and places 95% confidence-level upper limits on the contribution of new phenomena beyond the SM, incuding SUSY-portal and Higgs-portal models, on the number of events with lepton-jets.
Search for doubly charged Higgs boson production in multi-lepton final states with the ATLAS detector using proton–proton collisions at √(s)=13 TeV. A search for doubly charged Higgs bosons with pairs of prompt, isolated, highly energetic leptons with the same electric charge is presented. The search uses a proton-proton collision data sample at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV corresponding to 36.1 fb^-1 of integrated luminosity recorded in 2015 and 2016 by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. This analysis focuses on the decays H^±±→ e^±e^±, H^±±→ e^±μ^± and H^±±→μ^±μ^±, fitting the dilepton mass spectra in several exclusive signal regions. No significant evidence of a signal is observed and corresponding limits on the production cross-section are derived at 95% confidence level. The observed lower limit on the mass of a doubly charged Higgs boson only coupling to left-handed leptons (e,μ) varies from 770 GeV to 870 GeV (850 GeV expected) for B(H^±±→ℓ^±ℓ^±) = 100% and both the expected and observed mass limits are above 450 GeV for B(H^±±→ℓ^±ℓ^±) = 10% and any combination of partial branching ratios.
Search for a non-standard-model Higgs boson decaying to a pair of new light bosons in four-muon final states. Results are reported from a search for non-standard-model Higgs boson decays to pairs of new light bosons, each of which decays into the oppositely charged dimuon final state. The new bosons may be produced either promptly or via a decay chain. The data set corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 5.3 inverse femtobarns of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV, recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC. Such Higgs boson decays are predicted in several scenarios of new physics, including supersymmetric models with extended Higgs sectors or hidden valleys. Thus, the results of the search are relevant for establishing whether the new particle observed in Higgs boson searches at the LHC has the properties expected for a standard model Higgs boson. No excess of events is observed with respect to the yields expected from standard model processes. A model-independent upper limit of 0.78 +/- 0.05 fb on the product of the cross section times branching fraction times acceptance is obtained. The results are applicable to a broad spectrum of models and are also compared with the predictions of two benchmark scenarios as functions of a Higgs boson mass within the range 86-150 GeV and of a new light boson mass within the range 0.25-3.55 GeV.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the H → WW^(*)→ lν lν decay mode with 4.7 fb^-1 of ATLAS data at √(s) = 7 TeV. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the H → WW^(*)→ lν lν (l = e, μ) decay mode is presented. The search is performed using proton-proton collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV collected during 2011 with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant excess of events over the expected background is observed. An upper bound is placed on the Higgs boson production cross section as a function of its mass. A Standard Model Higgs boson with mass in the range between 133 GeV and 261 GeV is excluded at 95% confidence level, while the expected exclusion range is from 127 GeV to 233 GeV.
Searches for supersymmetry using the M_T2 variable in hadronic events produced in pp collisions at 8 TeV. Searches for supersymmetry (SUSY) are performed using a sample of hadronic events produced in 8 TeV pp collisions at the CERN LHC. The searches are based on the M_T2 variable, which is a measure of the transverse momentum imbalance in an event. The data were collected with the CMS detector and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 fb^-1. Two related searches are performed. The first is an inclusive search based on signal regions defined by the value of the M_T2 variable, the hadronic energy in the event, the jet multiplicity, and the number of jets identified as originating from bottom quarks. The second is a search for a mass peak corresponding to a Higgs boson decaying to a bottom quark-antiquark pair, where the Higgs boson is produced as a decay product of a SUSY particle. For both searches, the principal backgrounds are evaluated with data control samples. No significant excess over the expected number of background events is observed, and exclusion limits on various SUSY models are derived.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons decaying to a pair of tau leptons in pp collisions. A search for neutral Higgs bosons in the minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model (MSSM) decaying to tau-lepton pairs in pp collisions is performed, using events recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The dataset corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 24.6 fb^-1, with 4.9 fb^-1 at 7 TeV and 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV. To enhance the sensitivity to neutral MSSM Higgs bosons, the search includes the case where the Higgs boson is produced in association with a b-quark jet. No excess is observed in the tau-lepton-pair invariant mass spectrum. Exclusion limits are presented in the MSSM parameter space for different benchmark scenarios, m_h^max, m_h^mod+, m_h^mod-, light-stop, light-stau, τ-phobic, and low-m_H. Upper limits on the cross section times branching fraction for gluon fusion and b-quark associated Higgs boson production are also given.
Constraints on off-shell Higgs boson production and the Higgs boson total width in ZZ→ 4ℓ and ZZ→ 2ℓ2ν final states with the ATLAS detector. A measurement of off-shell Higgs boson production in the ZZ→4ℓ and ZZ→2ℓ2ν decay channels, where ℓ stands for either an electron or a muon, is performed using data from proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=13 TeV. The data were collected by the ATLAS experiment in 2015 and 2016 at the Large Hadron Collider, and they correspond to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. An observed (expected) upper limit on the off-shell Higgs signal strength, defined as the event yield normalised to the Standard Model prediction, of 3.8 (3.4) is obtained at 95% confidence level (CL). Assuming the ratio of the Higgs boson couplings to the Standard Model predictions is independent of the momentum transfer of the Higgs production mechanism considered in the analysis, a combination with the on-shell signal-strength measurements yields an observed (expected) 95% CL upper limit on the Higgs boson total width of 14.4 (15.2) MeV.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the WW^(*)WW^(*) decay channel using ATLAS data recorded at √(s)=13 TeV. A search for a pair of neutral, scalar bosons with each decaying into two W bosons is presented using 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. This search uses three production models: non-resonant and resonant Higgs boson pair production and resonant production of a pair of heavy scalar particles. Three final states, classified by the number of leptons, are analysed: two same-sign leptons, three leptons, and four leptons. No significant excess over the expected Standard Model backgrounds is observed. An observed (expected) 95% confidence-level upper limit of 160 (120) times the Standard Model prediction of non-resonant Higgs pair production cross-section is set from a combined analysis of the three final states. Upper limits are set on the production cross-section times branching ratio of a heavy scalar X decaying into a Higgs boson pair in the mass range of 260 GeV ≤ m_X ≤ 500 GeV and the observed (expected) limits range from 9.3 (10) pb to 2.8 (2.6) pb. Upper limits are set on the production cross-section times branching ratio of a heavy scalar X decaying into a pair of heavy scalars S for mass ranges of 280 GeV ≤ m_X ≤ 340 GeV and 135 GeV ≤ m_S ≤ 165 GeV and the observed (expected) limits range from 2.5 (2.5) pb to 0.16 (0.17) pb.
Study of the e^+e^-→ Ze^+e^- Process at LEP. The cross section of the process e^+e^-→ Ze^+e^- is measured with 0.7 fb^-1 of data collected with the L3 detector at LEP. Decays of the Z boson into quarks and muons are considered at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 183 GeV up to 209 GeV. The measurements are found to agree with Standard Model predictions, achieving a precision of about 10% for the hadronic channel.
Measurements of the Higgs boson inclusive and differential fiducial  cross sections in the 4ℓ decay channel at √(s) = 13 TeV. Inclusive and differential fiducial cross sections of the Higgs boson are measured in the H → ZZ^*→ 4ℓ (ℓ = e,μ) decay channel. The results are based on proton-proton collision data produced at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and recorded by the ATLAS detector from 2015 to 2018, equivalent to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1. The inclusive fiducial cross section for the H → ZZ^*→ 4ℓ process is measured to be σ_fid = 3.28 ± 0.32 fb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction of σ_fid, SM = 3.41 ± 0.18 fb. Differential fiducial cross sections are measured for a variety of observables which are sensitive to the production and decay of the Higgs boson. All measurements are in agreement with the Standard Model predictions. The results are used to constrain anomalous Higgs boson interactions with Standard Model particles.
Search for nonresonant Higgs boson pair production in final states with two bottom quarks and two photons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for nonresonant production of Higgs boson pairs via gluon-gluon and vector boson fusion processes in final states with two bottom quarks and two photons is presented. The search uses data from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV recorded with the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. No significant deviation from the background-only hypothesis is observed. An upper limit at 95% confidence level is set on the product of the Higgs boson pair production cross section and branching fraction into bb̅γγ. The observed (expected) upper limit is determined to be 0.67 (0.45) fb, which corresponds to 7.7 (5.2) times the standard model prediction. This search has the highest sensitivity to Higgs boson pair production to date. Assuming all other Higgs boson couplings are equal to their values in the standard model, the observed coupling modifiers of the trilinear Higgs boson self-coupling κ_λ and the coupling between a pair of Higgs bosons and a pair of vector bosons c_2V are constrained within the ranges -3.3 < κ_λ  < 8.5 and -1.3 < c_2V < 3.5 at 95% confidence level. Constraints on κ_λ are also set by combining this analysis with a search for single Higgs bosons decaying to two photons, produced in association with top quark-antiquark pairs, and by performing a simultaneous fit of κ_λ and the top quark Yukawa coupling modifier κ_t.
Search for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson produced in association with bottom quarks in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV. A search for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson (A) produced in association with bottom quarks and decaying into a muon pair is reported. The search uses 19.7 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, collected by the CMS experiment. No signal is observed in the dimuon mass range from 25 to 60 GeV. Upper limits on the cross section times branching fraction, σ( p  p → b b̅A) ℬ(A→μμ), are set.
Observation of electroweak production of same-sign W boson pairs in the two jet and two same-sign lepton final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. The first observation of electroweak production of same-sign W boson pairs in proton-proton collisions is reported. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV with the CMS detector at the LHC. Events are selected by requiring exactly two leptons (electrons or muons) of the same charge, moderate missing transverse momentum, and two jets with a large rapidity separation and a large dijet mass. The observed significance of the signal is 5.5 standard deviations, where a significance of 5.7 standard deviations is expected based on the standard model. The ratio of measured event yields to that expected from the standard model at leading-order is 0.90 ± 0.22. A cross section measurement in a fiducial region is reported. Bounds are given on the structure of quartic vector boson interactions in the framework of dimension-eight effective field theory operators and on the production of doubly charged Higgs bosons.
Combined search for anomalous pseudoscalar HVV couplings in VH production and H → VV decay. A search for anomalous pseudoscalar couplings of the Higgs boson H to electroweak vector bosons V (= W or Z) in a sample of proton-proton collision events corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 18.9 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV is presented. Events consistent with the topology of associated VH production, where the Higgs boson decays to a pair of bottom quarks and the vector boson decays leptonically, are analyzed. The consistency of data with a potential pseudoscalar contribution to the HVV interaction, expressed by the effective pseudoscalar cross section fractions f_a_3, is assessed by means of profile likelihood scans. Results are given for the VH channels alone and for a combined analysis of the VH and previously published H → VV channels. Assuming the standard model ratio of the coupling strengths of the Higgs boson to top and bottom quarks, f_a_3^ZZ>0.0034 is excluded at 95% confidence level in the combination.
Search for heavy ZZ resonances in the ℓ^+ℓ^-ℓ^+ℓ^- and ℓ^+ℓ^-νν̅ final states using proton proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy resonances decaying into a pair of Z bosons leading to ℓ^+ℓ^-ℓ^+ℓ^- and ℓ^+ℓ^-νν̅ final states, where ℓ stands for either an electron or a muon, is presented. The search uses proton proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector during 2015 and 2016 at the Large Hadron Collider. Different mass ranges for the hypothetical resonances are considered, depending on the final state and model. The different ranges span between 200 GeV and 2000 GeV. The results are interpreted as upper limits on the production cross section of a spin 0 or spin 2 resonance. The upper limits for the spin 0 resonance are translated to exclusion contours in the context of Type I and Type II two-Higgs-doublet models, while those for the spin 2 resonance are used to constrain the Randall Sundrum model with an extra dimension giving rise to spin 2 graviton excitations.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the two photon decay channel with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the two photon decay channel is reported, using 1.08 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector. No significant excess is observed in the investigated mass range of 110-150 GeV. Upper limits on the cross-section times branching ratio of between 2.0 and 5.8 times the Standard Model prediction are derived for this mass range.
Search for a Multi-Higgs Boson Cascade in W^+W^− bb̅ events with the ATLAS detector in pp collisions at √s = 8 TeV. A search is presented for new particles in an extension to the Standard Model that includes a heavy Higgs boson (H^0), an intermediate charged Higgs boson (H±), and a light Higgs boson (h^0). The analysis searches for events involving the production of a single heavy neutral Higgs boson which decays to the charged Higgs boson and a W boson, where the charged Higgs boson subsequently decays into a W boson and the lightest neutral Higgs boson decaying to a bottom-antibottom-quark pair. Such a cascade results in a W-boson pair and a bottom–antibottom-quark pair in the final state. Events with exactly one lepton, missing transverse momentum, and at least four jets are selected from a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1, collected by the ATLAS detector in proton-proton collisions at √s = 8 TeV at the LHC. The data are found to be consistent with Standard Model predictions, and 95% confidence level upper limits are set on the product of cross-section and branching ratio. These limits range from 0.065 pb to 43 pb as a function of H^0 and H± masses, with m_h0 fixed at 125 GeV.
Measurement of the transverse momentum spectrum of the Higgs boson produced in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV using H → W  W decays. The cross section for Higgs boson production in pp collisions is studied using the H → W ^+ W ^- decay mode, followed by leptonic decays of the W bosons to an oppositely charged electron-muon pair in the final state. The measurements are performed using data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.4 fb^-1. The Higgs boson transverse momentum (p_T) is reconstructed using the lepton pair p_T and missing p_T. The differential cross section times branching fraction is measured as a function of the Higgs boson p_T in a fiducial phase space defined to match the experimental acceptance in terms of the lepton kinematics and event topology. The production cross section times branching fraction in the fiducial phase space is measured to be 39 ± 8 (stat) ± 9 (syst) fb. The measurements are found to agree, within experimental uncertainties, with theoretical calculations based on the standard model.
Absolute Lower Limits on the Masses of Selectrons and Sneutrinos in the MSSM. The results of searches for selectrons, charginos and neutralinos performed with the data collected by the ALEPH detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV are interpreted in the framework of the Minimal Supersymmetric extension of the Standard Model with R-parity conservation. Under the assumptions of gaugino and sfermion mass unification and no sfermion mixing, an absolute lower limit of 73 GeV/c2 is set on the mass of the lighter selectron at the 95% confidence level. Similarly, limits on the masses of the heavier selectron and of the sneutrino are set at 107 and 84 GeV/c2, respectively. Additional constraints are derived from the results of the searches for Higgs bosons. The results are also interpreted in the framework of minimal supergravity.
Search for Charged Higgs bosons: Combined Results Using LEP data. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have searched for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons in the framework of Two Higgs Doublet Models (2HDMs). The data of the four experiments are statistically combined. The results are interpreted within the 2HDM for Type I and Type II benchmark scenarios. No statistically significant excess has been observed when compared to the Standard Model background prediction, and the combined LEP data exclude large regions of the model parameter space. Charged Higgs bosons with mass below 80 GeV/c^2 (Type II scenario) or 72.5 GeV/c^2 (Type I scenario, for pseudo-scalar masses above 12 GeV/c^2) are excluded at the 95% confidence level.
Measurement of the Probability of Gluon Splitting into Charmed Quarks in Hadronic Z Decays. We have measured the probability, n_g→ cc, of a gluon splitting into a charm-quark pair using 1.7 million hadronic Z decays collected by the L3 detector. Two independent methods have been applied to events with a three-jet topology. One method relies on tagging charmed hadrons by identifying a lepton in the lowest energy jet. The other method uses a neural network based on global event shape parameters. Combining both methods, we measure n_g→ cc = [2.45 ± 0.29 ± 0.53].
Search for tt̅H production in the H→bb̅ decay channel with leptonic tt̅ decays in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for the associated production of a standard model Higgs boson with a top quark-antiquark pair (tt̅H), in which the Higgs boson decays into a b quark-antiquark pair, in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 recorded with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC. Candidate tt̅H events are selected that contain either one or two electrons or muons from the tt̅ decays and are categorised according to the number of jets. Multivariate techniques are employed to further classify the events and eventually discriminate between signal and background. The results are characterised by an observed tt̅H signal strength relative to the standard model cross section, μ = σ/σ_SM, under the assumption of a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV. A combined fit of multivariate discriminant distributions in all categories results in an observed (expected) upper limit on μ of 1.5 (0.9) at 95% confidence level, and a best fit value of 0.72 ± 0.24 (stat) ± 0.38 (syst), corresponding to an observed (expected) signal significance of 1.6 (2.2) standard deviations above the background-only hypothesis.
Search for lepton flavour violating decays of the Higgs boson to e τ and e μ in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 8  TeV. A direct search for lepton flavour violating decays of the Higgs boson (H) in the H → e τ and H → e μ channels is described. The data sample used in the search was collected in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 8  TeV with the CMS detector at the LHC and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. No evidence is found for lepton flavour violating decays in either final state. Upper limits on the branching fractions, ℬ( H → e τ )< 0.69% and ℬ( H → e μ)< 0.035%, are set at the 95% confidence level. The constraint set on ℬ( H → e τ) is an order of magnitude more stringent than the existing indirect limits. The limits are used to constrain the corresponding flavour violating Yukawa couplings, absent in the standard model.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying into two photons in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. A search for a Higgs boson decaying into two photons is described. The analysis is performed using a dataset recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC from pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV, which corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.8 inverse femtobarns. Limits are set on the cross section of the standard model Higgs boson decaying to two photons. The expected exclusion limit at 95% confidence level is between 1.4 and 2.4 times the standard model cross section in the mass range between 110 and 150 GeV. The analysis of the data excludes, at 95% confidence level, the standard model Higgs boson decaying into two photons in the mass range 128 to 132 GeV. The largest excess of events above the expected standard model background is observed for a Higgs boson mass hypothesis of 124 GeV with a local significance of 3.1 sigma. The global significance of observing an excess with a local significance greater than 3.1 sigma anywhere in the search range 110-150 GeV is estimated to be 1.8 sigma. More data are required to ascertain the origin of this excess.
Measurements of fiducial and differential cross sections for Higgs boson production in the diphoton decay channel at √(s)=8 TeV with ATLAS. Measurements of fiducial and differential cross sections are presented for Higgs boson production in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s)=8 TeV. The analysis is performed in the H →γγ decay channel using 20.3 fb^-1 of data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The signal is extracted using a fit to the diphoton invariant mass spectrum assuming that the width of the resonance is much smaller than the experimental resolution. The signal yields are corrected for the effects of detector inefficiency and resolution. The pp→ H →γγ fiducial cross section is measured to be 43.2 ± 9.4 (stat) ^+3.2_-2.9 (syst) ± 1.2 (lumi) fb for a Higgs boson of mass 125.4 GeV decaying to two isolated photons that have transverse momentum greater than 35% and 25% of the diphoton invariant mass and each with absolute pseudorapidity less than 2.37. Four additional fiducial cross sections and two cross-section limits are presented in phase space regions that test the theoretical modelling of different Higgs boson production mechanisms, or are sensitive to physics beyond the Standard Model. Differential cross sections are also presented, as a function of variables related to the diphoton kinematics and the jet activity produced in the Higgs boson events. The observed spectra are statistically limited but broadly in line with the theoretical expectations.
Search for Charged Higgs bosons: Combined Results Using LEP data. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have searched for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons in the framework of Two Higgs Doublet Models (2HDMs). The data of the four experiments are statistically combined. The results are interpreted within the 2HDM for Type I and Type II benchmark scenarios. No statistically significant excess has been observed when compared to the Standard Model background prediction, and the combined LEP data exclude large regions of the model parameter space. Charged Higgs bosons with mass below 80 GeV/c^2 (Type II scenario) or 72.5 GeV/c^2 (Type I scenario, for pseudo-scalar masses above 12 GeV/c^2) are excluded at the 95% confidence level.
Search for the Higgs boson produced in association with a W boson and decaying to four b-quarks via two spin-zero particles in pp collisions at 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This paper presents a dedicated search for exotic decays of the Higgs boson to a pair of new spin-zero particles, H → aa, where the particle a decays to b-quarks and has a mass in the range of 20-60 GeV. The search is performed in events where the Higgs boson is produced in association with a W boson, giving rise to a signature of a lepton (electron or muon), missing transverse momentum, and multiple jets from b-quark decays. The analysis is based on the full dataset of pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2015 by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 3.2 fb^-1. No significant excess of events above the Standard Model prediction is observed, and a 95% confidence-level upper limit is derived for the product of the production cross section for pp → WH times the branching ratio for the decay H → aa → 4b. The upper limit ranges from 6.2 pb for an a-boson mass m_a = 20 GeV to 1.5 pb for m_a = 60 GeV.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s) = 192-209 GeV. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson has been performed with the OPAL detector at LEP based on the full data sample collected at sqrt(s) = 192-209 GeV in 1999 and 2000, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of approximately 426 pb-1. The data are examined for their consistency with the background-only hypothesis and various Higgs boson mass hypotheses. A lower bound of 109.7 GeV is obtained on the Higgs boson mass at the 95% confidence level. At higher masses, the data are consistent with both the background and the signal-plus-background hypotheses.
Search for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson in the boosted μμττ final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson (a) decaying from the 125 GeV (or a heavier) scalar Higgs boson (H) is performed using the 2016 LHC proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, collected by the CMS experiment. The analysis considers gluon fusion and vector boson fusion production of the H, followed by the decay H→aa→μμττ, and considers pseudoscalar masses in the range 3.6 < m_a  < 21 GeV. Because of the large mass difference between the H and the a bosons and the small masses of the a boson decay products, both the μμ and the ττ pairs have high Lorentz boost and are collimated. The ττ reconstruction efficiency is increased by modifying the standard technique for hadronic τ lepton decay reconstruction to account for a nearby muon. No significant signal is observed. Model-independent limits are set at 95% confidence level, as a function of m_a, on the branching fraction (ℬ) for H→aa→μμττ, down to 1.5 (2.0) × 10^-4 for m_H = 125 (300) GeV. Model-dependent limits on ℬ(H→aa) are set within the context of two Higgs doublets plus singlet models, with the most stringent results obtained for Type-III models. These results extend current LHC searches for heavier a bosons that decay to resolved lepton pairs and provide the first such bounds for an H boson with a mass above 125 GeV.
Search for the Higgs boson produced in association with a vector boson and decaying into two spin-zero particles in the H → aa → 4b channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for exotic decays of the Higgs boson into a pair of spin-zero particles, H → aa, where the a-boson decays into b-quarks promptly or with a mean proper lifetime cτ_a up to 6 mm and has a mass in the range of 20-60 GeV, is presented. The search is performed in events where the Higgs boson is produced in association with a W or Z boson, giving rise to a signature of one or two charged leptons (electrons or muons) and multiple jets from b-quark decays. The analysis is based on the dataset of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016 by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. No significant excess of events above the Standard Model background prediction is observed, and 95% confidence-level upper limits are derived for the production cross-sections for pp → WH, ZH and their combination, times the branching ratio of the decay chain H → aa → 4b. For a-bosons which decay promptly, the upper limit on the combination of cross-sections for WH and ZH times the branching ratio of H → aa → 4b ranges from 3.0 pb for m_a= 20 GeV to 1.3 pb for m_a = 60 GeV, assuming that the ratio of WH to ZH cross-sections follows the Standard Model prediction. For a-bosons with longer proper lifetimes, the most stringent limits are 1.8 pb and 0.6 pb, respectively, at cτ_a ∼ 0.4 mm.
Search for events with large missing transverse momentum, jets, and at least two tau leptons in 7 TeV proton-proton collision data with the ATLAS detector. A search for events with large missing transverse momentum, jets, and at least two tau leptons has been performed using 2 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. No excess above the Standard Model background expectation is observed and a 95% CL visible cross section upper limit for new phenomena is set. A 95% CL lower limit of 32 TeV is set on the GMSB breaking scale Lambda independent of tan(beta). These limits provide the most stringent tests to date in a large part of the considered parameter space.
A Study of Parton Fragmentation in Hadronic Z^0 Decays Using ΛΛ Correlations. The correlated production of Lambda and Lambdabar baryons has been studied using 4.3 million multihadronic Zo decays recorded with the OPAL detector at LEP. Di-lambda pairs were investigated in the full data sample and for the first time also in 2-jet and 3-jet events selected with the k_t algorithm. The distributions of rapidity differences from correlated Lambda-Lambdabar pairs exhibit short-range, local correlations and prove to be a sensitive tool to test models, particularly for 2-jet events. The JETSET model describes the data best but some extra parameter tuning is needed to improve agreement with the experimental results in the rates and the rapidity spectra simultaneously. The recently developed modification of JETSET, the MOdified Popcorn Scenarium (MOPS), and also HERWIG do not give satisfactory results. This study of di-lambda production in 2- and 3-jet events supports the short-range compensation of quantum numbers.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in the H^±→ tb decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV using the ATLAS detector. Charged Higgs bosons heavier than the top quark and decaying via H^±→ tb are searched for in proton–proton collisions measured with the ATLAS experiment at √(s)=8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. The production of a charged Higgs boson in association with a top quark, gb → tH^±, is explored in the mass range 200 to 600 GeV using multi-jet final states with one electron or muon. In order to separate the signal from the Standard Model background, analysis techniques combining several kinematic variables are employed. An excess of events above the background-only hypothesis is observed across a wide mass range, amounting to up to 2.4 standard deviations. Upper limits are set on the gb→ tH^± production cross section times the branching fraction BR(H^±→ tb). Additionally, the complementary s-channel production, qq' → H^±, is investigated through a reinterpretation of W' → tb searches in ATLAS. Final states with one electron or muon are relevant for H^± masses from 0.4 to 2.0 TeV, whereas the all-hadronic final state covers the range 1.5 to 3.0 TeV. In these search channels, no significant excesses from the predictions of the Standard Model are observed, and upper limits are placed on the qq' → H^± production cross section times the branching fraction BR(H^±→ tb).
Search for a low mass neutral Higgs boson in Z0 decay.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in e^+ e^- interactions at √(s) = 183 GeV. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson is performed with the L3 detector at LEP. The data sample, corresponding to a luminosity of 55.3 pb^-1, was collected at an average centre-of-mass energy of 182.7 GeV. No Higgs signal is observed, leading to a lower limit on the Higgs boson mass of 87.6 GeV at the 95% confidence level.
Search for heavy resonances decaying into a photon and a hadronically decaying Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This Letter presents a search for the production of new heavy resonances decaying into a Higgs boson and a photon using proton-proton collision data at √(s)=13 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1. The analysis is performed by reconstructing hadronically decaying Higgs boson (H→ bb̅) candidates as single large-radius jets. A novel algorithm using information about the jet constituents in the center-of-mass frame of the jet is implemented to identify the two b-quarks in the single jet. No significant excess of events is observed above the expected background. Upper limits are set on the production cross-section times branching fraction for narrow spin-1 resonances decaying into a Higgs boson and a photon in the resonance mass range from 0.7 to 4 TeV, cross-sections times branching fraction are excluded between 11.6 fb and 0.11 fb at a 95% confidence level.
Search for Anomalous Couplings in the Higgs Sector at LEP. Anomalous couplings of the Higgs boson are searched for through the processes e^+ e^- -> H gamma, e^+ e^- -> e^+ e^- H and e^+ e^- -> HZ. The mass range 70 GeV < m_H < 190 GeV is explored using 602 pb^-1 of integrated luminosity collected with the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies sqrt(s)=189-209 GeV. The Higgs decay channels H -> ffbar, H -> gamma gamma, H -> Zγand H -> WW^(*) are considered and no evidence is found for anomalous Higgs production or decay. Limits on the anomalous couplings d, db, Delta(g1z), Delta(kappa_gamma) and xi^2 are derived as well as limits on the H -> gamma gamma and H -> Z gamma decay rates.
Electroweak Measurements in Electron-Positron Collisions at W-Boson-Pair Energies at LEP. Electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the electron-positron collider LEP at CERN from 1995 to 2000 are reported. The combined data set considered in this report corresponds to a total luminosity of about 3 fb^-1 collected by the four LEP experiments ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 130 GeV to 209 GeV. Combining the published results of the four LEP experiments, the measurements include total and differential cross-sections in photon-pair, fermion-pair and four-fermion production, the latter resulting from both double-resonant WW and ZZ production as well as singly resonant production. Total and differential cross-sections are measured precisely, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model at centre-of-mass energies never explored before in electron-positron collisions. Final-state interaction effects in four-fermion production, such as those arising from colour reconnection and Bose-Einstein correlations between the two W decay systems arising in WW production, are searched for and upper limits on the strength of possible effects are obtained. The data are used to determine fundamental properties of the W boson and the electroweak theory. Among others, the mass and width of the W boson, M_W and Γ_W, the branching fraction of W decays to hadrons, B(W→had), and the trilinear gauge-boson self-couplings g^Z_1, κ_γ and λ_γ are determined to be: m_W = 80.376 ± 0.033 GeV Γ_W = 2.195 ± 0.083 GeV B(W →had) = 67.41 ± 0.27% g^Z_1 = 0.984 ^+0.018_-0.020 κ_γ = 0.982 ± 0.042 λ_γ = -0.022 ± 0.019
Search for vector-like charge 2/3 T quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for fermionic top quark partners T of charge 2/3 is presented. The search is carried out in proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 collected at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV with the CMS detector at the LHC. The T quarks are assumed to be produced strongly in pairs and can decay into tH, tZ, and bW. The search is performed in five exclusive channels: a single-lepton channel, a multilepton channel, two all-hadronic channels optimized either for the bW or the tH decay, and one channel in which the Higgs boson decays into two photons. The results are found to be compatible with the standard model expectations in all the investigated final states. A statistical combination of these results is performed and lower limits on the T quark mass are set. Depending on the branching fractions, lower mass limits between 720 and 920 GeV at 95% confidence level are found. These are among the strongest limits on vector-like T quarks obtained to date.
Search for light long-lived neutral particles produced in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV and decaying into collimated leptons or light hadrons with the ATLAS detector. Several models of physics beyond the Standard Model predict the existence of dark photons, light neutral particles decaying into collimated leptons or light hadrons. This paper presents a search for long-lived dark photons produced from the decay of a Higgs boson or a heavy scalar boson and decaying into displaced collimated Standard Model fermions. The search uses data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2015-2016 with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The observed number of events is consistent with the expected background, and limits on the production cross section times branching fraction as a function of the proper decay length of the dark photon are reported. A cross section times branching fraction above 4 pb is excluded for a Higgs boson decaying into two dark photons for dark-photon decay lengths between 1.5 mm and 307 mm.
Search for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson in the boosted μμττ final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson (a) decaying from the 125 GeV (or a heavier) scalar Higgs boson (H) is performed using the 2016 LHC proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, collected by the CMS experiment. The analysis considers gluon fusion and vector boson fusion production of the H, followed by the decay H→aa→μμττ, and considers pseudoscalar masses in the range 3.6 < m_a  < 21 GeV. Because of the large mass difference between the H and the a bosons and the small masses of the a boson decay products, both the μμ and the ττ pairs have high Lorentz boost and are collimated. The ττ reconstruction efficiency is increased by modifying the standard technique for hadronic τ lepton decay reconstruction to account for a nearby muon. No significant signal is observed. Model-independent limits are set at 95% confidence level, as a function of m_a, on the branching fraction (ℬ) for H→aa→μμττ, down to 1.5 (2.0) × 10^-4 for m_H = 125 (300) GeV. Model-dependent limits on ℬ(H→aa) are set within the context of two Higgs doublets plus singlet models, with the most stringent results obtained for Type-III models. These results extend current LHC searches for heavier a bosons that decay to resolved lepton pairs and provide the first such bounds for an H boson with a mass above 125 GeV.
Mass limits for a standard model Higgs boson in e+e- collisions at LEP.
Measurements of properties of the Higgs boson decaying into the four-lepton final state in pp collisions at sqrt(s) = 13 TeV. Properties of the Higgs boson are measured in the H to ZZ to 4l (l= e, mu) decay channel. A data sample of proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s) = 13 TeV, collected with the CMS detector at the LHC and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 inverse femtobarns is used. The signal strength modifier mu, defined as the ratio of the observed Higgs boson rate in the H to ZZ to 4l decay channel to the standard model expectation, is measured to be mu = 1.05 +0.19/-0.17 at m[H ]= 125.09 GeV, the combined ATLAS and CMS measurement of the Higgs boson mass. The signal strength modifiers for the individual Higgs boson production modes are also measured. The cross section in the fiducial phase space defined by the requirements on lepton kinematics and event topology is measured to be 2.92 +0.48/-0.44 (stat) +0.28/-0.24 (syst) fb, which is compatible with the standard model prediction of 2.76 +/- 0.14 fb. Differential cross sections are reported as a function of the transverse momentum of the Higgs boson, the number of associated jets, and the transverse momentum of the leading associated jet. The Higgs boson mass is measured to be m[H] = 125.26 +/- 0.21 GeV and the width is constrained using on-shell production to be Gamma[H] < 1.10 GeV, at 95% confidence level.
Search for a heavy Higgs boson decaying to a pair of W bosons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for a heavy Higgs boson in the mass range from 0.2 to 3.0 TeV, decaying to a pair of W bosons, is presented. The analysis is based on proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The W boson pair decays are reconstructed in the 2ℓ 2ν  and ℓν 2q  final states (with ℓ = e or μ). Both gluon fusion and vector boson fusion production of the signal are considered. Interference effects between the signal and background are also taken into account. The observed data are consistent with the standard model (SM) expectation. Combined upper limits at 95% confidence level on the product of the cross section and branching fraction exclude a heavy Higgs boson with SM-like couplings and decays up to 1870 GeV. Exclusion limits are also set in the context of a number of two-Higgs-doublet model formulations, further reducing the allowed parameter space for SM extensions.
Measurement of the e^+e^-→ ZZ Production Cross Section at Centre-of-Mass Energies of 183 and 189 GeV. The ee -> ZZ cross section at sqrt(s)=182.7 and 188.6 GeV has been measured using the ALEPH detector. The analysis covers all of the visible ZZ final states and yields cross section measurements of sigma_ZZ(182.7 GeV) = 0.11 +- (0.16,0.11) (stat.) +- 0.04 (syst.) pb and sigma_ZZ(188.6 GeV) = 0.67 +- 0.13 (stat.) +- 0.04 (syst.) pb consistent with the Standard Model expectations.
Higgs boson production cross-section measurements and their EFT  interpretation in the 4ℓ decay channel at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Higgs boson properties are studied in the four-lepton decay channel (where lepton = e, μ) using 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded at √(s) = 13 TeV by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. The inclusive cross-section times branching ratio for H→ ZZ^* decay is measured to be 1.34 ± 0.12 pb for a Higgs boson with absolute rapidity below 2.5, in good agreement with the Standard Model prediction of 1.33 ± 0.08 pb. Cross-sections times branching ratio are measured for the main Higgs boson production modes in several exclusive phase-space regions. The measurements are interpreted in terms of coupling modifiers and of the tensor structure of Higgs boson interactions using an effective field theory approach. Exclusion limits are set on the CP-even and CP-odd `beyond the Standard Model' couplings of the Higgs boson to vector bosons, gluons and top quarks.
Search for gauge mediated SUSY breaking topologies in e^+ e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. A total of 628 of data collected with the ALEPH detector at centre-of-mass energies from 189 to 209 GeV is analysed in the search for gauge mediated SUSY breaking (GMSB) topologies. These topologies include two acoplanar photons, non-pointing single photons, acoplanar leptons, large impact parameter leptons, detached slepton decay vertices, heavy stable charged sleptons and multi-leptons plus missing energy final states. No evidence is found for new phenomena, and lower limits on masses of supersymmetric particles are derived. A scan of a minimal GMSB parameter space is performed and lower limits are set for the next-to-lightest supersymmetric particle (NLSP) mass at 54 and for the mass scale parameter Λ at 10, independently of the NLSP lifetime. Including the results from the neutral Higgs boson searches, a NLSP mass limit of 77 is obtained and values of Λ up to 16 are excluded.
Search for a fermiophobic Higgs boson in the diphoton decay channel with the ATLAS detector. A search for a fermiophobic Higgs boson with diphoton events produced in proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of sqrt(s) = 7 TeV is performed using data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 fb-1 collected by the ATLAS experiment. A specic benchmark model is considered where all the fermion couplings to the Higgs boson are set to zero and the bosonic couplings are kept at the Standard Model values. The largest excess with respect to the background-only hypothesis is found at 125.5 GeV, with a significance of 1.6 (3.0) standard deviations when taking (not taking) the look elsewhere effect into account. The data exclude this benchmark model in the ranges 110.0 - 118.0 GeV and 119.5 - 121.0 GeV at 95% confidence level. The expected exclusion limits are in the range 110.0 - 123.5 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson decaying into bb̅ produced in association with top quarks decaying hadronically in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson production in association with a pair of top quarks (tt̅H) is performed, where the Higgs boson decays to bb̅, and both top quarks decay hadronically. The data used correspond to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The search selects events with at least six energetic jets and uses a boosted decision tree algorithm to discriminate between signal and Standard Model background. The dominant multijet background is estimated using a dedicated data-driven technique. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, an upper limit of 6.4 (5.4) times the Standard Model cross section is observed (expected) at 95% confidence level. The best-fit value for the signal strength is μ = 1.6 ± 2.6 times the Standard Model expectation for m_H = 125 GeV. Combining all tt̅H searches carried out by ATLAS at √(s)=8 and 7 TeV, an observed (expected) upper limit of 3.1 (1.4) times the Standard Model expectation is obtained at 95% confidence level, with a signal strength μ = 1.7 ± 0.8.
Search for dark matter produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to γγ or τ^+τ^- at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for dark matter particles is performed by looking for events with large transverse momentum imbalance and a recoiling Higgs boson decaying to either a pair of photons or a pair of τ leptons. The search is based on proton-proton collision data at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected at the CERN LHC in 2016 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. No significant excess over the expected standard model background is observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are presented for the product of the production cross section and branching fraction in the context of two benchmark simplified models. For the Z'-two-Higgs-doublet model (where Z' is a new massive boson mediator) with an intermediate heavy pseudoscalar particle of mass m_A = 300 GeV and m_DM = 100 GeV, Z' masses from 550 GeV up to 1265 GeV are excluded. For a baryonic Z' model, with m_DM = 1 GeV, Z' masses up to 615 GeV are excluded. Results are also presented for the spin-independent cross section for the dark matter-nucleon interaction as a function of the mass of the dark matter particle. This is the first search for dark matter particles produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to two τ leptons.
Observation of the Higgs boson decay to a pair of τ leptons with the CMS detector. A measurement of the coupling strength of the Higgs boson to a pair of tau leptons is performed using events recorded in proton-proton collisions by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The data set corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 inverse femtobarns. The H to tau tau signal is established with a significance of 4.9 standard deviations, to be compared to an expected significance of 4.7 standard deviations. The best fit of the product of the observed H to tau tau signal production cross section and branching fraction is 1.09 +0.27-0.26 times the standard model expectation. The combination with the corresponding measurement performed with data collected by the CMS experiment at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV leads to an observed significance of 5.9 standard deviations, equal to the expected significance. This is the first observation of Higgs boson decays to tau leptons by a single experiment.
Search for invisible decays of the Higgs boson produced in association with a hadronically decaying vector boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for Higgs boson decays to invisible particles is performed using 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The process considered is Higgs boson production in association with a vector boson (V = W or Z) that decays hadronically, resulting in events with two or more jets and large missing transverse momentum. No excess of candidates is observed in the data over the background expectation. The results are used to constrain VH production followed by H decaying to invisible particles for the Higgs mass range 115<m_H<300 GeV. The 95% confidence-level observed upper limit on σ_VH×BR(H→inv.) varies from 1.6 pb at 115 GeV to 0.13 pb at 300 GeV. Assuming Standard Model production and including the gg→ H contribution as signal, the results also lead to an observed upper limit of 78% at 95% confidence level on the branching ratio of Higgs bosons decays to invisible particles at a mass of 125 GeV.
Search for new phenomena in final states with an energetic jet and large missing transverse momentum in pp collisions at √(s)=8TeV with the ATLAS detector. Results of a search for new phenomena in final states with an energetic jet and large missing transverse momentum are reported. The search uses 20.3 fb^-1 of √(s)=8 TeV data collected in 2012 with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Events are required to have at least one jet with p_T > 120 GeV and no leptons. Nine signal regions are considered with increasing missing transverse momentum requirements between E_T^miss >150 GeV and E_T^miss > 700 GeV. Good agreement is observed between the number of events in data and Standard Model expectations. The results are translated into exclusion limits on models with large extra spatial dimensions, pair production of weakly interacting dark matter candidates, and production of very light gravitinos in a gauge-mediated supersymmetric model. In addition, limits on the production of an invisibly decaying Higgs-like boson leading to similar topologies in the final state are presented.
Search for Anomalous Production of Acoplanar Di-lepton Events in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s)=183 and 189 GeV. A selection of di-lepton events with significant missing transverse momentum has been performed using a total data sample of 237.4 pb-1 at e+e- centre-of-mass energies of 183 GeV and 189 GeV. The observed numbers of events - 78 at 183 GeV and 301 at 189 GeV - are consistent with the numbers expected from Standard Model processes, which arise predominantly from W+W- production with each W decaying leptonically. This topology is also an experimental signature for the pair production of new particles that decay to a charged lepton accompanied by one or more invisible particles. Discrimination techniques are described that optimise the sensitivity to particular new physics channels. No evidence for new phenomena is apparent and model independent limits are presented on the production cross-section times branching ratio squared for sleptons and for leptonically decaying charginos and charged Higgs. Assuming a 100 % branching ratio for the decay of a slepton to a lepton and the lightest neutralino, we exclude at 95 % CL: right-handed smuons with masses below 82.3 GeV for a smuon-neutralino mass difference > 3 Gev and right-handed staus with masses below 81.0 GeV for a stau-neutralino mass difference > 8 GeV. Right-handed selectrons are excluded at 95% CL for masses below 87.1 GeV for a selectron-neutralino mass diffeerence > 5GeV, within the framework of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model assuming mu < -100 GeV and tanbeta = 1.5. Charged Higgs bosons are excluded at 95% CL for masses below 82.8GeV, assuming a 100% branching ratio for their decay to tau+neutrino.
Search for the associated production of the Higgs boson with a top-quark pair. A search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair (tt̅H) is presented, using data samples corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1 fb^-1 and 19.7 fb^-1 collected in pp collisions at center-of-mass energies of 7 TeV and 8 TeV respectively. The search is based on the following signatures of the Higgs boson decay: H → hadrons, H → photons, and H → leptons. The results are characterized by an observed tt̅H signal strength relative to the standard model cross section, μ =σ/σ_SM, under the assumption that the Higgs boson decays as expected in the standard model. The best fit value is μ =2.8 ± 1.0 for a Higgs boson mass of 125.6 GeV.
Search for higgsino pair production in pp collisions at sqrt(s) = 13 TeV in final states with large missing transverse momentum and two Higgs bosons decaying via H to bb-bar. Results are reported from a search for new physics in 13 TeV proton-proton collisions in the final state with large missing transverse momentum and two Higgs bosons decaying via H to bb-bar. The search uses a data sample accumulated by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 inverse femtobarns. The search is motivated by models based on gauge-mediated supersymmetry breaking, which predict the electroweak production of a pair of higgsinos, each of which can decay via a cascade process to a Higgs boson and an undetected lightest supersymmetric particle. The observed event yields in the signal regions are consistent with the standard model background expectation obtained from control regions in data. Higgsinos in the mass range 230-770 GeV are excluded at 95% confidence level in the context of a simplified model for the production and decay of approximately degenerate higgsinos.
Search for lepton-flavour-violating decays of the Higgs and Z bosons with the ATLAS detector. Direct searches for lepton flavour violation in decays of the Higgs and Z bosons with the ATLAS detector at the LHC are presented. The following three decays are considered: H→ eτ, H→μτ, and Z→μτ. The searches are based on the data sample of proton–proton collisions collected by the ATLAS detector corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 8 TeV. No significant excess is observed, and upper limits on the lepton-flavour-violating branching ratios are set at the 95% confidence level: Br(H→ eτ) < 1.04%, Br(H→μτ) < 1.43%, and Br(Z→μτ) < 1.69 × 10^-5.
Measurement of the Higgs boson mass from the H→γγ and H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ channels with the ATLAS detector using 25 fb^-1 of pp collision data. An improved measurement of the mass of the Higgs boson is derived from a combined fit to the invariant mass spectra of the decay channels H→γγ and H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ. The analysis uses the pp collision data sample recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider at center-of-mass energies of 7 TeV and 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 25 fb^-1. The measured value of the Higgs boson mass is m_H = 125.36 ± 0.37  (stat)± 0.18  (syst) GeV. This result is based on improved energy-scale calibrations for photons, electrons, and muons as well as other analysis improvements, and supersedes the previous result from ATLAS. Upper limits on the total width of the Higgs boson are derived from fits to the invariant mass spectra of the H→γγ and H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ decay channels.
Measurement of Higgs boson production and properties in the WW decay channel with leptonic final states. A search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying to a W-boson pair at the LHC is reported. The event sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 and 19.4 inverse femtobarns collected with the CMS detector in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV, respectively. The Higgs boson candidates are selected in events with two or three charged leptons. An excess of events above background is observed, consistent with the expectation from the standard model Higgs boson with a mass of around 125 GeV. The probability to observe an excess equal or larger than the one seen, under the background-only hypothesis, corresponds to a significance of 4.3 standard deviations for m_H = 125.6 GeV. The observed signal cross section times the branching fraction to WW for m_H = 125.6 GeV is 0.72^+0.20_-0.18 times the standard model expectation. The spin-parity J_P=0^+ hypothesis is favored against a narrow resonance with J_P=2^+ or J_P=0^- that decays to a W-boson pair. This result provides strong evidence for a Higgs-like boson decaying to a W-boson pair.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have collected a total of 2461 pb-1 of e+e- collision data at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209 GeV. The data are used to search for the Standard Model Higgs boson. The search results of the four collaborations are combined and examined in a likelihood test for their consistency with two hypotheses: the background hypothesis and the signal plus background hypothesis. The corresponding confidences have been computed as functions of the hypothetical Higgs boson mass. A lower bound of 114.4 GeV/c2 is established, at the 95% confidence level, on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson. The LEP data are also used to set upper bounds on the HZZ coupling for various assumptions concerning the decay of the Higgs boson.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying to bottom quarks in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. A search for the standard model Higgs boson (H) decaying to a b-quark pair when produced in association with weak vector bosons (V) is reported for the following modes: W(mu,nu)H, W(e,nu)H, Z(mu,mu)H, Z(e,e)H and Z(nu,nu)H. The search is performed in a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 inverse femtobarns, recorded by the CMS detector in proton-proton collisions at the LHC with a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV. No significant excess of events above the expectation from background is observed. Upper limits on the VH production cross section times the H to b-quark pair branching ratio, with respect to the expectations for a standard model Higgs boson, are derived for a Higgs boson in the mass range 110-135 GeV. In this range, the observed 95% confidence level upper limits vary from 3.4 to 7.5 times the standard model prediction; the corresponding expected limits vary from 2.7 to 6.7.
Search for heavy ZZ resonances in the ℓ^+ℓ^-ℓ^+ℓ^- and ℓ^+ℓ^-νν̅ final states using proton proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy resonances decaying into a pair of Z bosons leading to ℓ^+ℓ^-ℓ^+ℓ^- and ℓ^+ℓ^-νν̅ final states, where ℓ stands for either an electron or a muon, is presented. The search uses proton proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector during 2015 and 2016 at the Large Hadron Collider. Different mass ranges for the hypothetical resonances are considered, depending on the final state and model. The different ranges span between 200 GeV and 2000 GeV. The results are interpreted as upper limits on the production cross section of a spin 0 or spin 2 resonance. The upper limits for the spin 0 resonance are translated to exclusion contours in the context of Type I and Type II two-Higgs-doublet models, while those for the spin 2 resonance are used to constrain the Randall Sundrum model with an extra dimension giving rise to spin 2 graviton excitations.
Absolute mass lower limit for the lightest neutralino of the MSSM from e^+e^- data at √(s) up to 209 GeV. Charginos and neutralinos are searched for in the data collected by the ALEPH experiment at LEP for centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. The negative result of these searches is combined with those from searches for sleptons and Higgs bosons to derive an absolute lower limit of 43.1 GeV/c2 on the mass of the lightest supersymmetric particle (LSP), assumed to be the lightest neutralino. This limit is obtained in the framework of the MSSM with R-parity conservation and with gaugino and sfermion mass unification at the GUT scale and assuming no mixing in the stau sector. The LSP limit degrades only slightly to 42.4 GeV/c2 if stau mixing is considered. Within the more constrained framework of minimal supergravity, the limit is 50 GeV/c2.
Observation and measurement of Higgs boson decays to WW^∗ with the ATLAS detector. We report the observation of Higgs boson decays to WW^∗ based on an excess over background of 6.1 standard deviations in the dilepton final state, where the Standard Model expectation is 5.8 standard deviations. Evidence for the vector-boson fusion (VBF) production process is obtained with a significance of 3.2 standard deviations. The results are obtained from a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 25 pb^-1 from √(s)=7 and 8 TeV pp collisions recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. For a Higgs boson mass of 125.36 GeV, the ratio of the measured value to the expected value of the total production cross section times branching fraction is 1.09^+0.16_-0.15(stat.)^+0.17_-0.14(syst.). The corresponding ratios for the gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion production mechanisms are 1.02± 0.19 (stat.)^+0.22_-0.18(syst.) and 1.27^+0.44_-0.40(stat.)^+0.30_-0.21(syst.), respectively. At √(s)=8 TeV, the total production cross sections are measured to be σ(gg→ H→ WW^∗) = 4.6±0.9 (stat.) ^+0.8_-0.7 (syst.)pb and σ(VBF H→ WW^∗) = 0.51 ^+0.17_-0.15 (stat.) ^+0.13_-0.08 (syst.)pb. The fiducial cross section is determined for the gluon-fusion process in exclusive final states with zero or one associated jet.
Search for a light charged Higgs boson in top quark decays in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. Results are presented on a search for a light charged Higgs boson that can be produced in the decay of the top quark to charged H and b quark and which, in turn, decays into tau and tau neutrino. The analysed data correspond to an integrated luminosity of about 2 inverse femtobarns recorded in proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s) = 7 TeV by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The search is sensitive to the decays of the top quark pairs t anti-t to charged Higgs W b anti-b and t anti-t to charged Higgs b anti-b. Various final states have been studied separately, all requiring presence of a tau lepton from charged Higgs decays, missing transverse energy, and multiple jets. Upper limits on the branching fraction B(t to charged Higgs b) in the range of 2-3% are established for charged Higgs boson masses between 80 and 160 GeV, under the assumption that B(charged Higgs to tau anti-tau) = 1.
Search for single production of a heavy vector-like T quark decaying to a Higgs boson and a top quark with a lepton and jets in the final state. A search for single production of vector-like top quark partners (T) decaying into a Higgs boson and a top quark is performed using data from pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 2.3 fb^-1. The top quark decay includes an electron or a muon while the Higgs boson decays into a pair of b quarks. No significant excess over standard model backgrounds is observed. Exclusion limits on the product of the production cross section and the branching fraction are derived in the T quark mass range 700 to 1800 GeV. For a mass of 1000 GeV, values of the product of the production cross section and the branching fraction greater than 0.8 and 0.7 pb are excluded at 95% confidence level, assuming left- and right-handed coupling of the T quark to standard model particles, respectively. This is the first analysis setting exclusion limits on the cross section of singly produced vector-like T quarks at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV.
Search for new phenomena in high-mass diphoton final states using 37 fb^-1 of proton–proton collisions collected at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Searches for new phenomena in high-mass diphoton final states with the ATLAS experiment at the LHC are presented. The analysis is based on pp collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.7 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy √(s)=13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016. Searches are performed for resonances with spin 0, as predicted by theories with an extended Higgs sector, and for resonances with spin 2, using a warped extra-dimension model as a benchmark model, as well as for non-resonant signals, assuming a large extra-dimension scenario. No significant deviation from the Standard Model is observed. Upper limits are placed on the production cross section times branching ratio to two photons as a function of the resonance mass. In addition, lower limits are set on the ultraviolet cutoff scale in the large extra-dimensions model.
Search for bottom-type, vector-like quark pair production in a fully hadronic final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is described for the production of a pair of bottom-type vector-like quarks (VLQs), each decaying into a b or b̅ quark and either a Higgs or a Z boson, with a mass greater than 1000 GeV. The analysis is based on data from proton-proton collisions at a 13 TeV center-of-mass energy recorded at the CERN LHC, corresponding to a total integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. As the predominant decay modes of the Higgs and Z bosons are to a pair of quarks, the analysis focuses on final states consisting of jets resulting from the six quarks produced in the events. Since the two jets produced in the decay of a highly Lorentz-boosted Higgs or Z boson can merge to form a single jet, nine independent analyses are performed, categorized by the number of observed jets and the reconstructed event mode. No signal in excess of the expected background is observed. Lower limits are set on the VLQ mass at 95% confidence level equal to 1570 GeV in the case where the VLQ decays exclusively to a b quark and a Higgs boson, 1390 GeV for when it decays exclusively to a b quark and a Z boson, and 1450 GeV for when it decays equally in these two modes. These limits represent significant improvements over the previously published VLQ limits.
Search for neutral Higgs bosons in the minimal supersymmetric extension of the Standard Model.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson with the OPAL Detector at LEP. This paper summarises the search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in e+e- collisions at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV performed by the OPAL Collaboration at LEP. The consistency of the data with the background hypothesis and various Higgs boson mass hypotheses is examined. No indication of a signal is found in the data and a lower bound of 112.7GeV/C^2 is obtained on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson at the 95% CL.
Test of CP Invariance in vector-boson fusion production of the Higgs boson using the Optimal Observable method in the ditau decay channel with the ATLAS detector. A test of CP invariance in Higgs boson production via vector-boson fusion using the method of the Optimal Observable is presented. The analysis exploits the decay mode of the Higgs boson into a pair of τ leptons and is based on 20.3 fb^-1 of proton—proton collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. Contributions from CP-violating interactions between the Higgs boson and electroweak gauge bosons are described in an effective field theory framework, in which the strength of CP violation is governed by a single parameter d̃. The mean values and distributions of CP-odd observables agree with the expectation in the Standard Model and show no sign of CP violation. The CP-mixing parameter d̃ is constrained to the interval [-0.11,0.05] at 68% confidence level, consistent with the Standard Model expectation of d̃=0.
Search for Higgs and Z Boson Decays to ϕ γ with the ATLAS Detector. A search for the decays of the Higgs and Z bosons to a ϕ meson and a photon is performed with a pp collision data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 2.7 fb^-1 collected at √(s)=13TeV with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. No significant excess of events is observed above the background, and 95% confidence level upper limits on the branching fractions of the Higgs and Z boson decays to ϕ γ of 1.4×10^-3 and 8.3×10^-6, respectively, are obtained.
Measurements of Mass, Width and Gauge Couplings of the W Boson at LEP. We report on measurements of mass and total decay width of the W boson and of triple-gauge-boson couplings, γWW and ZWW, with the L3 detector at LEP. W-pair events produced in interactions between 161 and 172 centre-of-mass energy are selected in a data sample corresponding to a total luminosity of 21.2 pb^-1. The mass and total decay width of the W boson are determined to be =80.75^+0.26_-0.27 (exp.)±0.03 ( hrmLEP) and =1.74^+0.88_-0.78 (stat.)±0.25 (syst.) V, respectively. Limits on anomalous triple-gauge-boson couplings, γWW and ZWW, are determined, in particular -1.5<<1.9 (95% CL), excluding vanishing ZWW coupling at more than 95% confidence level.
Search for heavy Higgs bosons decaying into two tau leptons with the ATLAS detector using pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV. A search for heavy neutral Higgs bosons is performed using the LHC Run 2 data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s)=13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector. The search for heavy resonances is performed over the mass range 0.2-2.5 TeV for the τ^+τ^- decay with at least one τ-lepton decaying into final states with hadrons. The data are in good agreement with the background prediction of the Standard Model. In the M_h^125 scenario of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model, values of tanβ>8 and tanβ>21 are excluded at the 95% confidence level for m_A=1.0 TeV and m_A=1.5 TeV, respectively.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson.
Search for new phenomena in events with at least three photons collected in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Results of a search for new phenomena in events with at least three photons are reported. Data from proton–proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1, were collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The observed data are well described by the Standard Model. Limits at the 95% confidence level on new phenomena are presented based on the rate of events in an inclusive signal region and a restricted signal region targeting the rare decay Z→ 3γ, as well as di-photon and tri-photon resonance searches. For a Standard Model Higgs boson decaying to four photons via a pair of intermediate pseudoscalar particles (a), limits are found to be σ×BR(h → aa) ×BR(a →γγ)^2 < 10^-3σ_SM for 10 GeV < m_a < 62 GeV. Limits are also presented for Higgs boson-like scalars (H) for m_H > 125 GeV, and for a Z' decaying to three photons via Z' → a+γ→ 3γ. Additionally, the observed limit on the branching ratio of the Z boson decay to three photons is found to be BR(Z → 3γ) < 2.2 × 10^-6, a result five times stronger than the previous result from LEP.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a W or a Z boson and decaying to bottom quarks. A search for the standard model Higgs boson (H) decaying to bb̅ when produced in association with a weak vector boson (V) is reported for the following channels: W(μν)H, W(eν)H, W(τν)H, Z(μμ)H, Z(ee)H, and Z(νν)H. The search is performed in data samples corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 7 TeV and up to 18.9 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 8 TeV, recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC. An excess of events is observed above the expected background with a local significance of 2.1 standard deviations for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, consistent with the expectation from the production of the standard model Higgs boson. The signal strength corresponding to this excess, relative to that of the standard model Higgs boson, is 1.0 +/- 0.5.
Search for the Higgs boson produced in association with a W boson and decaying to four b-quarks via two spin-zero particles in pp collisions at 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This paper presents a dedicated search for exotic decays of the Higgs boson to a pair of new spin-zero particles, H → aa, where the particle a decays to b-quarks and has a mass in the range of 20-60 GeV. The search is performed in events where the Higgs boson is produced in association with a W boson, giving rise to a signature of a lepton (electron or muon), missing transverse momentum, and multiple jets from b-quark decays. The analysis is based on the full dataset of pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2015 by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 3.2 fb^-1. No significant excess of events above the Standard Model prediction is observed, and a 95% confidence-level upper limit is derived for the product of the production cross section for pp → WH times the branching ratio for the decay H → aa → 4b. The upper limit ranges from 6.2 pb for an a-boson mass m_a = 20 GeV to 1.5 pb for m_a = 60 GeV.
Search for Higgs boson off-shell production in proton-proton collisions at 7 and 8 TeV and derivation of constraints on its total decay width. A search is presented for the Higgs boson off-shell production in gluon fusion and vector boson fusion processes with the Higgs boson decaying into a W ^+ W ^- pair and the W bosons decaying leptonically. The data observed in this analysis are used to constrain the Higgs boson total decay width. The analysis is based on the data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 4.9 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV and 19.4 fb^-1 at 8 TeV, respectively. An observed (expected) upper limit on the off-shell Higgs boson event yield normalised to the standard model prediction of 2.4 (6.2) is obtained at the 95% CL for the gluon fusion process and of 19.3 (34.4) for the vector boson fusion process. Observed and expected limits on the total width of 26 and 66 MeV are found, respectively, at the 95% confidence level (CL). These limits are combined with the previous result in the ZZ channel leading to observed and expected 95% CL upper limits on the width of 13 and 26 MeV, respectively.
Search for narrow high-mass resonances in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV decaying to Z and Higgs bosons. The first search for a narrow, high-mass resonance decaying into Z and Higgs (H) bosons is presented. The final state studied consists of a merged jet pair and a τ pair resulting from the decays of Z and H bosons, respectively. The analysis is based on a data sample of proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, collected with the CMS experiment in 2012, and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1. In the resonance mass range of interest, the Z and H bosons are produced with large momenta, which implies that the final products of the two quarks or the two τ leptons must be detected within a small angular interval. From a combination of all possible decay modes of the τ leptons, production cross sections in a range between 0.9 and 27.8 fb are excluded at 95% confidence level, depending on the resonance mass.
Search for Higgs bosons decaying to aa in the μμττ final state in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS experiment. A search for the decay to a pair of new particles of either the 125 GeV Higgs boson (h) or a second CP-even Higgs boson (H) is presented. The dataset correspods to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)= 8 TeV recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in 2012. The search was done in the context of the next-to-minimal supersymmetric standard model, in which the new particles are the lightest neutral pseudoscalar Higgs bosons (a). One of the two a bosons is required to decay to two muons while the other is required to decay to two τ-leptons. No significant excess is observed above the expected backgrounds in the dimuon invariant mass range from 3.7 GeV to 50 GeV. Upper limits are placed on the production of h→aa relative to the Standard Model gg→h production, assuming no coupling of the a boson to quarks. The most stringent limit is placed at 3.5% for m_a = 3.75 GeV. Upper limits are also placed on the production cross section of H→aa from 2.33 pb to 0.72 pb, for fixed m_a = 5 GeV with m_H ranging from 100 GeV to 500 GeV.
Measurement of the transverse momentum spectrum of the Higgs boson produced in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV using H → W  W decays. The cross section for Higgs boson production in pp collisions is studied using the H → W ^+ W ^- decay mode, followed by leptonic decays of the W bosons to an oppositely charged electron-muon pair in the final state. The measurements are performed using data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.4 fb^-1. The Higgs boson transverse momentum (p_T) is reconstructed using the lepton pair p_T and missing p_T. The differential cross section times branching fraction is measured as a function of the Higgs boson p_T in a fiducial phase space defined to match the experimental acceptance in terms of the lepton kinematics and event topology. The production cross section times branching fraction in the fiducial phase space is measured to be 39 ± 8 (stat) ± 9 (syst) fb. The measurements are found to agree, within experimental uncertainties, with theoretical calculations based on the standard model.
Measurement of the Z Resonance Parameters at LEP. The properties of the Z resonance are measured from the analysis of 4.5 million Z decays into fermion pairs collected with the detector at L EP. The data are consistent with lepton universality. The resonance parameters are measured to be =(91.1885 ± 0.0031), = (2.4951 ± 0.0043), =(41.559 ± 0.058) nb and, combining the three lepton flavours = 20.725± 0.039. The corresponding number of light neutrino species is N_ν=2.983±0.013 and the strong coupling constant is α_s() = 0.114±0.004± 0.002_QCD + 0.005 log_10[/150 GeV/c^2 ]. The lepton pair forward-backward asymmetry is measured to be =0.0173 ± 0.0016 from which the effective weak mixing angle is derived: = 0.23089± 0.00089. The measurement of the leptonic width =84.02±0.15 MeV leads to a determination of the effective ρ parameter ρ_ eff^ lept = 1.0064 ± 0.0018. The data support the Standard Model and favour a light Higgs.
Search for a massive resonance decaying to a pair of Higgs bosons in the four b quark final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for a massive resonance decaying into a pair of standard model Higgs bosons, in a final state consisting of two b quark-antiquark pairs, is performed. A data sample of proton-proton collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV is used, collected by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC in 2016, and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The Higgs bosons are highly Lorentz-boosted and are each reconstructed as a single large-area jet. The signal is characterized by a peak in the dijet invariant mass distribution, above a background from the standard model multijet production. The observations are consistent with the background expectations, and are interpreted as upper limits on the products of the s-channel production cross sections and branching fractions of narrow bulk gravitons and radions in warped extra-dimensional models. The limits range from 126 to 1.4 fb at 95% confidence level for resonances with masses between 750 and 3000 GeV, and are the most stringent to date, over the explored mass range.
Search for invisible Higgs boson decays in vector boson fusion at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. We report a search for Higgs bosons that are produced via vector boson fusion and subsequently decay into invisible particles. The experimental signature is two energetic jets with 𝒪(1) TeV invariant mass and 𝒪(100) GeV missing transverse momentum. The analysis uses 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collision data at 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. In the signal region the 2252 observed events are consistent with the background estimation. Assuming a 125 GeV particle with Standard Model cross sections, the upper limit on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay into invisible particles is 0.37 at 95% confidence level where 0.28 was expected. This limit is interpreted in Higgs portal models to set limits on the WIMP-nucleon scattering cross section. We also consider invisible decays of additional scalar bosons with masses up to 3 TeV for which the upper limits on the cross section times branching fraction are in the range of 0.3-2.0 pb.
Observation of a new boson with mass near 125 GeV in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV. A detailed description is reported of the analysis used by the CMS Collaboration in the search for the standard model Higgs boson in pp collisions at the LHC, which led to the observation of a new boson. The data sample corresponds to integrated luminosities up to 5.1 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 7 TeV, and up to 5.3 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 8 TeV. The results for five Higgs boson decay modes γγ, ZZ, WW, ττ, and bb, which show a combined local significance of 5 standard deviations near 125 GeV, are reviewed. A fit to the invariant mass of the two high resolution channels, gamma gamma and ZZ to 4 ell, gives a mass estimate of 125.3 +/- 0.4 (stat) +/- 0.5 (syst) GeV. The measurements are interpreted in the context of the standard model Lagrangian for the scalar Higgs field interacting with fermions and vector bosons. The measured values of the corresponding couplings are compared to the standard model predictions. The hypothesis of custodial symmetry is tested through the measurement of the ratio of the couplings to the W and Z bosons. All the results are consistent, within their uncertainties, with the expectations for a standard model Higgs boson.
Measurements of tt̅H production and the CP structure of the Yukawa interaction between the Higgs boson and top quark in the diphoton decay channel. The first observation of the tt̅H  process in a single Higgs boson decay channel with the full reconstruction of the final state (H→γγ) is presented, with a significance of 6.6 standard deviations (σ). The CP structure of Higgs boson couplings to fermions is measured, resulting in an exclusion of the pure CP-odd structure of the top Yukawa coupling at 3.2σ. The measurements are based on a sample of proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy √(s)= 13 TeV collected by the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1. The cross section times branching fraction of the tt̅H  process is measured to be σ_tt̅Hℬ_γγ= 1.56^+0.34_-0.32 fb, which is compatible with the standard model prediction of 1.13^+0.08_-0.11 fb. The fractional contribution of the CP-odd component is measured to be f_CP^Htt = 0.00 ± 0.33.
Search for resonant pair production of Higgs bosons decaying to two bottom quark-antiquark pairs in proton-proton collisions at 8 TeV. A model-independent search for a narrow resonance produced in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV and decaying to a pair of 125 GeV Higgs bosons that in turn each decays into bottom quark-antiquark pairs is performed by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The analyzed data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 17.9 fb^-1. No evidence for a signal is observed. Upper limits at a 95% confidence level on the production cross section for such a resonance, in the mass range from 270 to 1100 GeV, are reported. Using these results, a radion with decay constant of 1 TeV and mass from 300 to 1100 GeV, and a Kaluza–Klein graviton with mass from 380 to 830 GeV are excluded at a 95% confidence level.
Expected performance of the ATLAS experiment. A detailed study is presented of the expected performance of the ATLAS detector. The reconstruction of tracks, leptons, photons, missing energy and jets is investigated, together with the performance of b-tagging and the trigger. The physics potential for a variety of interesting physics processes, within the Standard Model and beyond, is examined. The study comprises a series of notes based on simulations of the detector and physics processes, with particular emphasis given to the data expected from the first years of operation of the LHC at CERN.
Search for Charged Higgs Bosons in e^+e^- Collisions at Centre-of-Mass Energies up to 202 GeV. A search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons is performed with the L3 detector at LEP using data collected at centre-of-mass energies between 192 and 202 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 233.2 pb^-1. Decays into a charm and a strange quark or into a tau lepton and its neutrino are considered. The observed events are consistent with the expectations from Standard Model background processes. Including data taken at lower centre-of-mass energies, lower limits on the charged Higgs mass are derived at the 95% confidence level. They vary from 67.4 to 79.9GeV as a function of the H^+/- –> tau nu branching ratio.
Flavour Independent Search for Neutral Higgs Bosons at LEP. A flavour independent search for the CP-even and CP-odd neutral Higgs bosons h and A is performed in 624/pb of data collected with the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209GeV. Higgs boson production through the e^+e^- -> Z h and the e^+e^- ->h A processes is considered and decays of the Higgs bosons into hadrons are studied. No significant signal is observed and 95% confidence level limits on the hZZ and hAZ couplings are derived as a function of the Higgs boson masses. Assuming the Standard Model cross section for the Higgs-strahlung process and a 100% branching fraction into hadrons, a 95% confidence level lower limit on the mass of the Higgs boson is set at 110.3GeV.
Search for a CP-odd Higgs boson decaying to Zh in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy, CP-odd Higgs boson, A, decaying into a Z boson and a 125 GeV Higgs boson, h, with the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. The search uses proton–proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. Decays of CP-even h bosons to ττ or bb pairs with the Z boson decaying to electron or muon pairs are considered, as well as h → bb decays with the Z boson decaying to neutrinos. No evidence for the production of an A boson in these channels is found and the 95% confidence level upper limits derived for σ (gg→ A) ×(A→ Zh) ×(h→ ff̅) are 0.098–0.013 pb for f=τ and 0.57–0.014 pb for f=b in a range of m_A = 220–1000 GeV. The results are combined and interpreted in the context of two-Higgs-doublet models.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson produced through vector boson fusion and decaying to bb̅. A first search is reported for a standard model Higgs boson (H) that is produced through vector boson fusion and decays to a bottom-quark pair. Two data samples, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 19.8 fb^-1 and 18.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV were selected for this channel at the CERN LHC. The observed significance in these data samples for a H → bb̅ signal at a mass of 125 GeV is 2.2 standard deviations, whilst the expected significance is 0.8 standard deviations. The fitted signal strength μ=σ/σ_SM=  2.8 ^+1.6_-1.4. The combination of this result with other CMS searches for the Higgs boson decaying to a b-quark pair, yields a signal strength of 1.0 ± 0.4, corresponding to a signal significance of 2.6 standard deviations for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV.
Search for an exotic decay of the Higgs boson to a pair of light pseudoscalars in the final state with two b quarks and two τ leptons in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search for an exotic decay of the Higgs boson to a pair of light pseudoscalar bosons is performed for the first time in the final state with two b quarks and two τ leptons. The search is motivated in the context of models of physics beyond the standard model (SM), such as two Higgs doublet models extended with a complex scalar singlet (2HDM+S), which include the next-to-minimal supersymmetric SM (NMSSM). The results are based on a data set of proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, accumulated by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016 at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. Masses of the pseudoscalar boson between 15 and 60 GeV are probed, and no excess of events above the SM expectation is observed. Upper limits between 3 and 12% are set on the branching fraction ℬ(h → aa → 2τ2b) assuming the SM production of the Higgs boson. Upper limits are also set on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson to two light pseudoscalar bosons in different 2HDM+S scenarios. Assuming the SM production cross section for the Higgs boson, the upper limit on this quantity is as low as 20% for a mass of the pseudoscalar of 40 GeV in the NMSSM.
CP Properties of Higgs Boson Interactions with Top Quarks in the ttH and tH Processes Using H → γγ with the ATLAS Detector. A study of the CP properties of the interaction between the Higgs boson and top quarks is presented. Higgs bosons are identified via the diphoton decay channel (H →γγ) and their production in association with a top quark pair (tt̅H) or single top quark (tH) is studied. The analysis uses 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data recorded at a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. It is performed using a fit to the diphoton invariant mass m_γγ distribution in events categorized using two independent boosted decision trees. Twelve categories are used for events where top quarks decay hadronically and eight for events where at least one top quark decays leptonically. Assuming a CP-even coupling, the tt̅H process is observed with a significance of 5.2 standard deviations. The tH production process is not observed and an upper limit on its rate of 12 times the Standard Model expectation is set. A CP-mixing angle greater than 43^∘ is excluded at 95% confidence level.
Search for doubly-charged Higgs bosons in like-sign dilepton final states at √(s) = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for doubly-charged Higgs bosons decaying to pairs of electrons and/or muons is presented. The search is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb-1 of pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Pairs of prompt, isolated, high-pT leptons with the same electric charge (ee, emu, mumu) are selected, and their invariant mass distribution is searched for a narrow resonance. No significant excess over Standard Model background expectations is observed, and limits are placed on the cross section times branching ratio for pair production of doubly-charged Higgs bosons. The masses of doubly-charged Higgs bosons are constrained depending on the branching ratio into these leptonic final states. Assuming pair production, coupling to left-handed fermions, and a branching ratio of 100% for each final state, masses below 409 GeV, 375 GeV, and 398 GeV are excluded for ee, emu, mumu, respectively.
Search for a standard-model-like Higgs boson with a mass in the range 145 to 1000 GeV at the LHC. A search for a standard-model-like Higgs boson in the H → WW and H → ZZ decay channels is reported, for Higgs boson masses in the range 145 < m_H < 1000 GeV. The search is based upon proton-proton collision data samples corresponding to an integrated luminosity of up to 5.1 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 7 TeV and up to 5.3 inverse femtobarns at √(s) = 8 TeV, recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The combined upper limits at 95% confidence level on products of the cross section and branching fractions exclude a standard-model-like Higgs boson in the range 145 < m_H < 710 GeV, thus extending the mass region excluded by CMS from 127-600 GeV up to 710 GeV.
Searches for Higgs bosons in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV in the context of four-generation and fermiophobic models. Searches are reported for Higgs bosons in the context of either the standard model extended to include a fourth generation of fermions (SM4) with masses of up to 600 GeV or fermiophobic models. For the former, results from three decay modes (ττ, WW, and ZZ) are combined, whilst for the latter the diphoton decay is exploited. The analysed proton-proton collision data correspond to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1 inverse femtobarns at 7 TeV and up to 5.3 inverse femtobarns at 8 TeV. The observed results exclude the SM4 Higgs boson in the mass range 110-600 GeV at 99% confidence level (CL), and in the mass range 110-560 GeV at 99.9% CL. A fermiophobic Higgs boson is excluded in the mass range 110-147 GeV at 95% CL, and in the range 110-134 GeV at 99% CL. The recently observed boson with a mass near 125 GeV is not consistent with either an SM4 or a fermiophobic Higgs boson.
Search for the standard model Higgs boson in the H → ZZ → l^+l^- τ^+ τ^- decay channel in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. A search is reported for the standard model Higgs boson in the decay mode H to ZZ to tau plus lepton pairs, where the leptons are either electrons or muons, in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 inverse femtobarn collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. No evidence is found for a significant deviation from the background expectation. An upper limit four to twelve times larger than the predicted value is set at 95% confidence level for the product of the standard model Higgs boson production cross section and decay branching fraction in the mass range 190 < m(H) < 600 GeV.
Search for standard model production of four top quarks with same-sign and multilepton final states in proton–proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for standard model production of four top quarks (tttt) is reported using events containing at least three leptons (e, μ) or a same-sign lepton pair. The events are produced in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV at the LHC, and the data sample, recorded in 2016, corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Jet multiplicity and flavor are used to enhance signal sensitivity, and dedicated control regions are used to constrain the dominant backgrounds. The observed and expected signal significances are, respectively, 1.6 and 1.0 standard deviations, and the tttt cross section is measured to be 16.9 ^+13.8_-11.4 fb, in agreement with next-to-leading-order standard model predictions. These results are also used to constrain the Yukawa coupling between the top quark and the Higgs boson to be less than 2.1 times its expected standard model value at 95% confidence level.
Search for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson in the dimuon decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. The dimuon invariant mass spectrum is searched in the range between 5.5 and 14 GeV for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson "a", predicted in a number of new physics models, including the next-to-minimal supersymmetric standard model. The data sample used in the search corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 1.3 inverse femtobarns collected in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV with the CMS detector at the LHC. No excess is observed above the background predictions and upper limits are set on the cross section times branching fraction sigma times B(pp to "a" to an oppositely charged muon pair) in the range of 1.5-7.5 pb. These results improve on existing bounds on the "a" b-bbar coupling for m("a") < m(Upsilon(1S)) and are the first significant limits for m("a") > m(Upsilon(1S)). Constraints on the supersymmetric parameter space are presented in the context of the next-to-minimal model.
Search for standard model production of four top quarks with same-sign and multilepton final states in proton–proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for standard model production of four top quarks (tttt) is reported using events containing at least three leptons (e, μ) or a same-sign lepton pair. The events are produced in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV at the LHC, and the data sample, recorded in 2016, corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Jet multiplicity and flavor are used to enhance signal sensitivity, and dedicated control regions are used to constrain the dominant backgrounds. The observed and expected signal significances are, respectively, 1.6 and 1.0 standard deviations, and the tttt cross section is measured to be 16.9 ^+13.8_-11.4 fb, in agreement with next-to-leading-order standard model predictions. These results are also used to constrain the Yukawa coupling between the top quark and the Higgs boson to be less than 2.1 times its expected standard model value at 95% confidence level.
Measurement of the mass of the W boson in e^+e^- collisions using the fully leptonic channel. A novel method of determining the mass of the W boson in the W/sup + /W/sup -/ to l nu l' nu ' channel is presented and applied to 667 pb /sup -1/ of data recorded at center-of-mass energies in the range 183-207 GeV with the OPAL detector at LEP. The measured energies of charged leptons and the results of a new procedure based on an approximate kinematic reconstruction of the events are combined to give: M/sub W/=80.41+or-0.41+or-0.13 geV, where the first error is statistical and the second is systematic. The systematic error is dominated by the uncertainty on the lepton energy, which is calibrated using data, and the parameterization of the variables used in the fitting, which is obtained using Monte Carlo events. Both of these are limited by statistics. (20 refs).
Search for an additional, heavy Higgs boson in the H→ ZZ decay channel at √(s) = 8 TeV in pp collision data with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for a high-mass Higgs boson in the H→ℓℓℓℓ, H→ℓℓνν, H→ℓℓ qq, and H→νν qq decay modes using the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. The search uses proton-proton collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1. The results of the search are interpreted in the scenario of a heavy Higgs boson with a width that is small compared with the experimental mass resolution. The Higgs boson mass range considered extends up to 1 TeV for all four decay modes and down to as low as 140 GeV, depending on the decay mode. No significant excess of events over the Standard Model prediction is found. A simultaneous fit to the four decay modes yields upper limits on the production cross-section of a heavy Higgs boson times the branching ratio to Z boson pairs. 95% confidence level upper limits range from 0.53 pb at m_H=195 GeV to 0.008 pb at m_H=950 GeV for the gluon-fusion production mode and from 0.31 pb at m_H=195 GeV to 0.009 pb at m_H=950 GeV for the vector-boson-fusion production mode. The results are also interpreted in the context of Type-I and Type-II two-Higgs-doublet models.
Search for heavy resonances decaying into a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in final states with leptons and b-jets in 36 fb^-1 of √(s) = 13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search is conducted for new resonances decaying into a W or Z boson and a 125 GeV Higgs boson in the νν̅bb̅, ℓ^±νbb̅, and ℓ^+ℓ^-bb̅ final states, where ℓ ^±= e^± or μ^±, in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. The data used correspond to a total integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider during the 2015 and 2016 data-taking periods. The search is conducted by examining the reconstructed invariant or transverse mass distributions of Wh and Zh candidates for evidence of a localised excess in the mass range of 220 GeV up to 5 TeV. No significant excess is observed and the results are interpreted in terms of constraints on the production cross-section times branching fraction of heavy W^' and Z^' resonances in heavy-vector-triplet models and the CP-odd scalar boson A in two-Higgs-doublet models. Upper limits are placed at the 95 % confidence level and range between 9.0× 10^-4 pb and 8.1× 10^-1 pb depending on the model and mass of the resonance.
Search for charged Higgs bosons in e^+ e^- collisions at √(s) = 181-184 GeV. Data collected at centre-of-mass energies of 181-184 GeV by ALEPH at LEP, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 56.9 pb^-1, are analysed in a search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons H+-. Three analyses are employed to select the tau nu tau nu, tau nu c s and c s c s final states. No evidence for a signal is found. Mass limits are set as a function of the branching fraction B( H+ -> tau+ nu ). Under the assumption that the decay modes considered cover the totality of the possible final states, charged Higgs bosons with masses below 59 GeV/c^2 are excluded at 95% C.L. independently of B( H+ -> tau+ nu ).
Higgs Candidates in e^+ e^- Interactions at √(s)= 206.6 GeV. In a search for the Standard Model Higgs boson, carried out on 212.5 pb^-1 of data collected by the L3 detector at the highest LEP centre-of-mass energies, including 116.5 pb^-1 above √(s) = 206 GeV, an excess of candidates for the process e^+ e^- → Z^*→ HZ is found for Higgs masses near 114.5 GeV. We present an analysis of our data and the characteristics of our strongest candidates.
Constraints on the spin-parity and anomalous HVV couplings of the Higgs boson in proton collisions at 7 and 8 TeV. The study of the spin-parity and tensor structure of the interactions of the recently discovered Higgs boson is performed using the H→ZZ, Zγ^*, γ^*γ^* → 4ℓ, H→WW→ℓνℓν, and H→γγ decay modes. The full dataset recorded by the CMS experiment during the LHC Run 1 is used, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of up to 5.1 fb^-1 at a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV and up to 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV. A wide range of spin-two models is excluded at a 99% confidence level or higher, or at a 99.87% confidence level for the minimal gravity-like couplings, regardless of whether assumptions are made on the production mechanism. Any mixed-parity spin-one state is excluded in the ZZ and WW modes at a greater than 99.999% confidence level. Under the hypothesis that the resonance is a spin-zero boson, the tensor structure of the interactions of the Higgs boson with two vector bosons ZZ, Zγ, γγ, and WW is investigated and limits on eleven anomalous contributions are set. Tighter constraints on anomalous HVV interactions are obtained by combining the HZZ and HWW measurements. All observations are consistent with the expectations for the standard model Higgs boson with the quantum numbers J^PC=0^++.
Search for a standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair and decaying to bottom quarks using a matrix element method. A search for a standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair and decaying to bottom quarks is presented. Events with hadronic jets and one or two oppositely charged leptons are selected from a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 fb^-1 collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. In order to separate the signal from the larger t t̅+jets background, this analysis uses a matrix element method that assigns a probability density value to each reconstructed event under signal or background hypotheses. The ratio between the two values is used in a maximum likelihood fit to extract the signal yield. The results are presented in terms of the measured signal strength modifier, μ, relative to the standard model prediction for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV. The observed (expected) exclusion limit at a 95% confidence level is μ lower than 4.2 (3.3), corresponding to a best fit value μ̂=1.2^+1.6_-1.5.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons decaying to μ^+μ^- in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV. A search for neutral Higgs bosons predicted in the minimal supersymmetric standard model (MSSM) for μ^+μ^- decay channels is presented. The analysis uses data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at centre-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 and 19.3 fb^-1, respectively. The search is sensitive to Higgs bosons produced through the gluon fusion process and in association with a bb quark pair. No statistically significant excess is observed in the μ^+μ^- mass spectrum. Results are interpreted in the framework of several benchmark scenarios, and the data are used to set an upper limit on the MSSM parameter tanβ as a function of the mass of the pseudoscalar A boson in the range from 115 to 300 GeV. Model independent upper limits are given for the product of the cross section and branching fraction for gluon fusion and b quark associated production. They are the most stringent limits obtained to date in this channel.
Search for dark matter in association with a Higgs boson decaying to b-quarks in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for dark matter pair production in association with a Higgs boson decaying to a pair of bottom quarks is presented, using 3.2 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The decay of the Higgs boson is reconstructed as a high-momentum bb̅ system with either a pair of small-radius jets, or a single large-radius jet with substructure. The observed data are found to be consistent with the expected backgrounds. Results are interpreted using a simplified model with a Z' gauge boson mediating the interaction between dark matter and the Standard Model as well as a two-Higgs-doublet model containing an additional Z' boson which decays to a Standard Model Higgs boson and a new pseudoscalar Higgs boson, the latter decaying into a pair of dark matter particles.
Mass Limit for the standard model Higgs boson with the full LEP I ALEPH data sample. background from the electroweak process e+e- –> l+ l- q qbar. This search results in a 95% C.L. lower limit on the Higgs boson mass of 63.9 . The reaction e+e- –> HZ* is used to search for the standard model Higgs boson in the H nu nubar and the H l+ l- channels. The data sample corresponds to about 4.5 million hadronic Z decays collected by the ALEPH experiment at LEP from 1989 to 1995 at centre-of-mass energies at and around the Z peak. Three candidate events are found in the H mu+ mu- channel, in agreement with the expected
Search for pair production of heavy vector-like quarks decaying into hadronic final states in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for the pair production of heavy vector-like quarks, TT̅ or BB̅, that decay into final states with jets and no reconstructed leptons. Jets in the final state are classified using a deep neural network as arising from hadronically decaying W/Z bosons, Higgs bosons, top quarks, or background. The analysis uses data from the ATLAS experiment corresponding to 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions with a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV delivered by the Large Hadron Collider in 2015 and 2016. No significant deviation from the Standard Model expectation is observed. Results are interpreted assuming the vector-like quarks decay into a Standard Model boson and a third-generation-quark, T→ Wb,Ht,Zt or B→ Wt,Hb,Zb, for a variety of branching ratios.  At 95% confidence level, the observed (expected) lower limit on the vector-like B-quark mass for a weak-isospin doublet (B, Y) is 950 (890) GeV, and the lower limits on the masses for the pure decays B→ Hb and T→ Ht, where these results are strongest, are 1010 (970) GeV and 1010 (1010) GeV, respectively.
Measurement of the Higgs boson coupling properties in the H→ ZZ^*→ 4ℓ decay channel at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The coupling properties of the Higgs boson are studied in the four-lepton decay channel using 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collision data from the LHC at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector. Cross sections are measured for the four key production modes in several exclusive regions of the Higgs boson production phase space and are interpreted in terms of coupling modifiers. The inclusive cross section times branching ratio for H → ZZ^* decay and for a Higgs boson absolute rapidity below 2.5 is measured to be 1.73^+0.24_-0.23(stat.)^+0.10_-0.08(exp.)± 0.04(th.) pb compared to the Standard Model prediction of 1.34±0.09 pb. In addition, the tensor structure of the Higgs boson couplings is studied using an effective Lagrangian approach for the description of interactions beyond the Standard Model. Constraints are placed on the non-Standard-Model CP-even and CP-odd couplings to Z bosons and on the CP-odd coupling to gluons.
Search for lepton-flavour-violating H→μτ decays of the Higgs boson with the ATLAS detector. A direct search for lepton–flavour–violating (LFV) H→μτ decays of the recently discovered Higgs boson with the ATLAS detector at the LHC is presented. The analysis is performed in the H→μτ_had channel, where τ_had is a hadronically decaying τ–lepton. The search is based on the data sample of proton–proton collisions collected by the ATLAS experiment corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1 at a centre–of–mass energy of √(s)=8 TeV. No statistically significant excess of data over the predicted background is observed. The observed (expected) 95% confidence–level upper limit on the branching fraction, Br(H→μτ), is 1.85% (1.24%).
Search for the standard model Higgs boson decaying to bottom quarks in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. A search for the standard model Higgs boson (H) decaying to a b-quark pair when produced in association with weak vector bosons (V) is reported for the following modes: W(mu,nu)H, W(e,nu)H, Z(mu,mu)H, Z(e,e)H and Z(nu,nu)H. The search is performed in a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 inverse femtobarns, recorded by the CMS detector in proton-proton collisions at the LHC with a center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV. No significant excess of events above the expectation from background is observed. Upper limits on the VH production cross section times the H to b-quark pair branching ratio, with respect to the expectations for a standard model Higgs boson, are derived for a Higgs boson in the mass range 110-135 GeV. In this range, the observed 95% confidence level upper limits vary from 3.4 to 7.5 times the standard model prediction; the corresponding expected limits vary from 2.7 to 6.7.
Absolute mass lower limit for the lightest neutralino of the MSSM from e^+e^- data at √(s) up to 209 GeV. Charginos and neutralinos are searched for in the data collected by the ALEPH experiment at LEP for centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. The negative result of these searches is combined with those from searches for sleptons and Higgs bosons to derive an absolute lower limit of 43.1 GeV/c2 on the mass of the lightest supersymmetric particle (LSP), assumed to be the lightest neutralino. This limit is obtained in the framework of the MSSM with R-parity conservation and with gaugino and sfermion mass unification at the GUT scale and assuming no mixing in the stau sector. The LSP limit degrades only slightly to 42.4 GeV/c2 if stau mixing is considered. Within the more constrained framework of minimal supergravity, the limit is 50 GeV/c2.
Search for new resonances decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the ℓ^+ ℓ^- bb̅, ℓν bb̅, and νν̅ bb̅ channels with pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for new resonances decaying to a W or Z boson and a Higgs boson in the ℓ^+ ℓ^- bb̅, ℓν bb̅, and νν̅ bb̅ channels in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider using a total integrated luminosity of 3.2 fb^-1. The search is conducted by looking for a localized excess in the WH/ZH invariant or transverse mass distribution. No significant excess is observed, and the results are interpreted in terms of constraints on a simplified model based on a phenomenological Lagrangian of heavy vector triplets.
Measurements of WH and ZH production in the H → bb̅ decay channel in pp collisions at 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Measurements of the Standard Model Higgs boson decaying into a bb̅ pair and produced in association with a W or Z boson decaying into leptons, using proton-proton collision data collected between 2015 and 2018 by the ATLAS detector, are presented. The measurements use collisions produced by the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) =13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1.  The production of a Higgs boson in association with a W or Z boson is established with observed (expected) significances of 4.0 (4.1) and 5.3 (5.1) standard deviations, respectively.  Cross-sections of associated production of a Higgs boson decaying into bottom quark pairs with an electroweak gauge boson, W or Z, decaying into leptons are measured as a function of the gauge boson transverse momentum in kinematic fiducial volumes.  The cross-section measurements are all consistent with the Standard Model expectations, and the total uncertainties vary from 30% in the high gauge boson transverse momentum regions to 85% in the low regions. Limits are subsequently set on the parameters of an effective Lagrangian sensitive to modifications of the WH and ZH processes as well as the Higgs boson decay into bb̅.
Search for Supersymmetric Particles in e^+e^- Collisions at √(s) up to 202 GeV and Mass Limit for the Lightest Neutralino. Searches for pair production of squarks, sleptons, charginos and neutralinos are performed with the data collected by the ALEPH detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies from 188.6 to 201.6 GeV. No evidence for any such signals is observed in a total integrated luminosity of about 410 pb**-1. The negative results of the searches are translated into exclusion domains in the space of the relevant MSSM parameters, which improve significantly on the constraints set previously. Under the assumptions of gaugino and sfermion mass unification, these results allow a 95% C.L. lower limit of 37 GeV/c**2 to be set on the mass of the lightest neutralino for any tan(beta) and sfermion mass. Additional constraints in the MSSM parameter space are derived from the negative results of ALEPH searches for Higgs bosons. The results are also interpreted in the framework of minimal supergravity.
Search for Higgs boson pair production in the γγbb final state in pp collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is presented for the production of a pair of Higgs bosons, where one decays into two photons and the other one into a bottom quark-antiquark pair. The analysis is performed using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2016 by the CMS detector at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The results are in agreement with standard model (SM) predictions. In a search for resonant production, upper limits are set on the cross section for new spin-0 or spin-2 particles. For the SM-like nonresonant production hypothesis, the data exclude a product of cross section and branching fraction larger than 2.0 fb at 95% confidence level (CL), corresponding to about 24 times the SM prediction. Values of the effective Higgs boson self-coupling κ_λ are constrained to be within the range -11 < κ_λ < 17 at 95% CL, assuming all other Higgs boson couplings are at their SM value. The constraints on κ_λ are the most restrictive to date.
Z boson pair production in e^+e^- collisions at √(s) = 183 and 189 GeV. A study of Z boson pair production in e+e- annihilation at center-of-mass energies near 183 GeV and 189 GeV is reported. Final states containing only leptons, (l+l-l+l- and l+l-nu nubar), quark and lepton pairs, (q qbar l+l-, q qbar nu nubar) and the all-hadronic final state (q qbar q qbar) are considered. In all states with at least one Z boson decaying hadronically, q qbar and b bbar final states are considered separately using lifetime and event-shape tags, thereby improving the cross-section measurement. At sqrt(s) = 189 GeV the Z-pair cross section was measured to be 0.80 (+0.14-0.13, stat.) (+0.06-0.05, syst.) pb, consistent with the Standard Model prediction. At sqrt(s) = 183 GeV the 95.L. upper limit is 0.55 pb. Limits on anomalous ZZgamma and ZZZ couplings are derived.
Search for a light charged Higgs boson decaying to c s̅ in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. A search for a light charged Higgs boson, originating from the decay of a top quark and subsequently decaying into a charm quark and a strange antiquark, is presented. The data used in the analysis correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 recorded in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 8 TeV by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The search is performed in the process t t̅→ W^± b H^∓b̅, where the W boson decays to a lepton (electron or muon) and a neutrino. The decays lead to a final state comprising an isolated lepton, at least four jets and large missing transverse energy. No significant deviation is observed in the data with respect to the standard model predictions, and model-independent upper limits are set on the branching fraction B (  t → H^+ b  ), ranging from 1.2 to 6.5% for a charged Higgs boson with mass between 90 and 160 GeV, under the assumption that B(  H^+→ c s̅ ) = 100%.
Standalone Vertex Finding in the ATLAS Muon Spectrometer. A dedicated reconstruction algorithm to find decay vertices in the ATLAS muon spectrometer is presented. The algorithm searches the region just upstream of or inside the muon spectrometer volume for multi-particle vertices that originate from the decay of particles with long decay paths. The performance of the algorithm is evaluated using both a sample of simulated Higgs boson events, in which the Higgs boson decays to long-lived neutral particles that in turn decay to b bbar final states, and pp collision data at √(s) = 7 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC during 2011.
Search for Higgs Boson Pair Production in the γγ bb̅ Final State using pp Collision Data at √(s)=8TeV from the ATLAS Detector. Searches are performed for resonant and non-resonant Higgs boson pair production in the hh →γγ b  b final state using 20 fb^-1 of proton–proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider. A 95% confidence level upper limit on the cross section times branching ratio of non–resonant production is set at 2.2 pb, while the expected limit is 1.0 pb. The corresponding limit observed for a narrow resonance ranges between 0.8 and 3.5 pb as a function of its mass.
Evidence for the H → bb̅ decay with the ATLAS detector. A search for the decay of the Standard Model Higgs boson into a bb̅ pair when produced in association with a W or Z boson is performed with the ATLAS detector. The analysed data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1, were collected in proton-proton collisions in Run 2 of the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. Final states containing zero, one and two charged leptons (electrons or muons) are considered, targeting the decays Z→νν, W→ℓν and Z→ℓℓ. For a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV, an excess of events over the expected background from other Standard Model processes is found with an observed significance of 3.5 standard deviations, compared to an expectation of 3.0 standard deviations. This excess provides evidence for the Higgs boson decay into b-quarks and for its production in association with a vector boson. The combination of this result with that of the Run 1 analysis yields a ratio of the measured signal events to the Standard Model expectation equal to 0.90 ± 0.18 (stat.) ^+0.21_-0.19(syst.). Assuming the Standard Model production cross-section, the results are consistent with the value of the Yukawa coupling to b-quarks in the Standard Model.
Decay mode independent search for a light Higgs boson and new scalars.
Constraints on the Higgs boson width from off-shell production and decay to Z-boson pairs. Constraints are presented on the total width of the recently discovered Higgs boson, Gamma_H, using its relative on-shell and off-shell production and decay rates to a pair of Z bosons, where one Z boson decays to an electron or muon pair, and the other to an electron, muon, or neutrino pair. The analysis is based on the data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2011 and 2012, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 inverse-femtobarns at a centre-of-mass energy √(s) = 7 TeV and 19.7 inverse-femtobarns at √(s) = 8 TeV. A simultaneous maximum likelihood fit to the measured kinematic distributions near the resonance peak and above the Z-boson pair production threshold leads to an upper limit on the Higgs boson width of Γ_H less than 22 MeV at a 95% confidence level, which is 5.4 times the expected value in the standard model at the measured mass.
Lower bound for the standard model Higgs boson mass from combining the results of the four LEP experiments.
Measurement of inclusive and differential Higgs boson production cross sections in the diphoton decay channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. Measurements of the inclusive and differential production cross sections for the Higgs boson in the diphoton decay channel are performed using the data set of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The cross sections are measured in a fiducial phase space defined by a set of requirements on the isolation and kinematic variables of the photons. Differential cross sections are measured as functions of the kinematic properties of the diphoton system and the event. A subset of the measurements is performed in subregions of the fiducial phase space, where relative contributions of specific Higgs boson production mechanisms are enhanced. The total cross section in the chosen fiducial phase space is measured to be 84 ± 11 (stat) ± 7 (syst) fb = 84 ± 13 fb, to be compared with a theoretical prediction of 73 ± 4 fb. All measurements are found to be in agreement with the theoretical predictions for the standard model Higgs boson with a mass of 125.09 GeV within the experimental and theoretical uncertainties.
Search for Neutral Higgs Bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model in e^+e^- Interactions at √(s) up to 209 GeV. A search for the lightest neutral CP-even and neutral CP-odd Higgs bosons of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model is performed using 216.6 pb-1 of data collected with the L3 detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies between 203 and 209 GeV. No indication of a signal is found. Including our results from lower centre-of-mass energies, lower limits on the Higgs boson masses are set as a function of tan(beta) for several scenarios. For tan(beta) greater than 0.7 they are mh > 84.5 GeV and mA > 86.3 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Search for heavy resonances decaying to a photon and a hadronically decaying Z/W/H boson in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Many extensions of the Standard Model predict new resonances decaying to a Z, W, or Higgs boson and a photon. This paper presents a search for such resonances produced in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV using a dataset with an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 collected by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider.  The Z/W/H bosons are identified through their decays to hadrons. The data are found to be consistent with the Standard Model expectation in the entire investigated mass range. Upper limits are set on the production cross section times branching fraction for resonance decays to Z/W+γ in the mass range from 1.0 to 6.8 TeV, and for the first time into H+γ in the mass range from 1.0 to 3.0 TeV.
Search for associated production of dark matter with a Higgs boson decaying to bb or γγ at √(s)=13 TeV. A search for dark matter is performed using events with large missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson decaying either to a pair of bottom quarks or to a pair of photons. The data from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, collected in 2015 with the CMS detector at the LHC, correspond to an integrated luminosity of 2.3 inverse femtobarns. Results are interpreted in the context of a Z'-two-Higgs-doublet model, where the gauge symmetry of the standard model is extended to a U(1)[Z'] group, with a new massive Z' gauge boson, and the Higgs sector is extended with four additional Higgs bosons. In this model, a high-mass resonance Z' decays into a pseudoscalar boson A and a light SM-like Higgs boson, and the A decays to a pair of dark matter particles. No significant excesses are observed over the background prediction. Combining results from the two decay channels yields exclusion limits in the signal cross section in the m[Z']-m[A] phase space. For example, the observed data exclude the Z' mass range from 600 to 1860 GeV, for Z' coupling strength g[Z'] = 0.8, the coupling of A with dark matter particles g[chi] = 1, the ratio of the vacuum expectation values tan[beta] = 1, and m[A] = 300 GeV. The results of this analysis are valid for any dark matter particle mass below 100 GeV.
Measurement of the four-lepton invariant mass spectrum in 13 TeV proton-proton collisions with the ATLAS detector. A measurement of the four-lepton invariant mass spectrum is made with the ATLAS detector, using an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV delivered by the Large Hadron Collider. The differential cross-section is measured for events containing two same-flavour opposite-sign lepton pairs. It exhibits a rich structure, with different mass regions dominated in the Standard Model by single Z boson production, Higgs boson production, and Z boson pair production, and non-negligible interference effects at high invariant masses. The measurement is compared with state-of-the-art Standard Model calculations, which are found to be consistent with the data. These calculations are used to interpret the data in terms of gg→ ZZ → 4ℓ and Z → 4ℓ subprocesses, and to place constraints on a possible contribution from physics beyond the Standard Model.
Combined results of searches for the standard model Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 TeV. Combined results are reported from searches for the standard model Higgs boson in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV in five Higgs boson decay modes: gamma pair, b-quark pair, tau lepton pair, W pair, and Z pair. The explored Higgs boson mass range is 110-600 GeV. The analysed data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 4.6-4.8 inverse femtobarns. The expected excluded mass range in the absence of the standard model Higgs boson is 118-543 GeV at 95% CL. The observed results exclude the standard model Higgs boson in the mass range 127-600 GeV at 95% CL, and in the mass range 129-525 GeV at 99% CL. An excess of events above the expected standard model background is observed at the low end of the explored mass range making the observed limits weaker than expected in the absence of a signal. The largest excess, with a local significance of 3.1 sigma, is observed for a Higgs boson mass hypothesis of 124 GeV. The global significance of observing an excess with a local significance greater than 3.1 sigma anywhere in the search range 110-600 (110-145) GeV is estimated to be 1.5 sigma (2.1 sigma). More data are required to ascertain the origin of this excess.
Searches for the neutral Higgs bosons of the MSSM in e^+ e^- collisions at centre-of-mass energies of 181-184 GeV. The data collected by ALEPH at LEP at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 181 to 184 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 57 pb-1, are analysed to search for pair-produced neutral Higgs bosons h and A, in the b bbar b bbar and tau+ tau- b bbar final states. Two events are found in the data with 2.5 expected from standard model processes. When combined with the lower energy data collected by ALEPH and with earlier reported searches for associated hZ production, these analyses are interpreted in the context of the minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model (MSSM). For standard choices of MSSM parameter sets, this combination results in 95% C.L. exclusion lower limits of 72.2 and 76.1 GeV/c2 for mh and mA, irrespective of tan(beta). A scan of the MSSM parameter space is performed in which the model parameters are varied over wide ranges. For low values of , i.e., for 1 < tan(beta) < 2, the limit on mh of 88 GeV/c2 is shown to be robust, being satisfied in essentially all of the physically allowed domain.
Searches for Higgs bosons.
Search for γγ decays of a Higgs boson in e^+e^- collisions at √(s) up to 209 GeV. A search for events with a photon pair arising from the decay of a Higgs boson produced in association with a fermion pair, is performed in 893pb^-1 of data recorded by the ALEPH detector at LEP at centre-of-mass energies up to 209GeV. No excess of such events is found over the expected background. An upper limit is derived on the product of the e^+e^- -> HZ cross section and the H -> gamma gamma branching fraction as a function of the Higgs boson mass. A fermiophobic Higgs boson produced with the Standard Model cross section is excluded at 95% confidence level for all masses below 105.4GeV/c2
Search for a fermiophobic Higgs boson in pp collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. Combined results are reported from searches for a fermiophobic Higgs boson in the γγ, WW, and ZZ decay modes in proton-proton collisions at √(s)=7 TeV. The explored Higgs boson mass range is 110-300 GeV. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.9-5.1 inverse femtobarns. A fermiophobic Higgs boson is excluded at 95% confidence level in the mass range 110-194 GeV, and at 99% confidence level in the mass ranges 110-124.5 GeV, 127-147.5 GeV, and 155-180 GeV.
Search for pair production of up-type vector-like quarks and for four-top-quark events in final states with multiple b-jets with the ATLAS detector. A search for pair production of up-type vector-like quarks (T) with a significant branching ratio into a top quark and either a Standard Model Higgs boson or a Z boson is presented. The same analysis is also used to search for four-top-quark production in several new physics scenarios. The search is based on a dataset of pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016 with the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. Data are analysed in the lepton+jets final state, characterised by an isolated electron or muon with high transverse momentum, large missing transverse momentum and multiple jets, as well as the jets+E_T^miss final state, characterised by multiple jets and large missing transverse momentum. The search exploits the high multiplicity of jets identified as originating from b-quarks, and the presence of boosted, hadronically decaying top quarks and Higgs bosons reconstructed as large-radius jets, characteristic of signal events. No significant excess above the Standard Model expectation is observed, and 95% CL upper limits are set on the production cross sections for the different signal processes considered. These cross-section limits are used to derive lower limits on the mass of a vector-like T quark under several branching ratio hypotheses assuming contributions from T → Wb, Zt, Ht decays. The 95% CL observed lower limits on the T quark mass range between 0.99 TeV and 1.43 TeV for all possible values of the branching ratios into the three decay modes considered, significantly extending the reach beyond that of previous searches. Additionally, upper limits on anomalous four-top-quark production are set in the context of an effective field theory model, as well as in an universal extra dimensions model.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in the H →τ^+ τ^- decay mode in √(s) = 7 TeV pp collisions with ATLAS. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson decaying into a pair of tau leptons is reported. The analysis is based on a data sample of proton-proton collisions collected by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 4.7 fb^-1. No significant excess over the expected background is observed in the Higgs boson mass range of 100-150 GeV. The observed (expected) upper limits on the cross section times the branching ratio for H →τ^+ τ^- are found to be between 2.9 (3.4) and 11.7 (8.2) times the Standard Model prediction for this mass range.
Searches for electroweak production of charginos, neutralinos, and sleptons decaying to leptons and W, Z, and Higgs bosons in pp collisions at 8 TeV. Searches for the direct electroweak production of supersymmetric charginos, neutralinos, and sleptons in a variety of signatures with leptons and W, Z, and Higgs bosons are presented. Results are based on a sample of proton-proton collision data collected at center-of-mass energy √(s) = 8 TeV with the CMS detector in 2012, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 inverse-femtobarn. The observed event rates are in agreement with expectations from the standard model. These results probe charginos and neutralinos with masses up to 720 GeV, and sleptons up to 280 GeV, depending on the model details.
Study of the fragmentation of b quarks into B mesons at the Z peak. The fragmentation of b quarks into B mesons is studied with four million hadronic Z decays collected by the ALEPH experiment during the years 1991-1995. A semi-exclusive reconstruction of B->l nu D(*) decays is performed, by combining lepton candidates with fully reconstructed D(*) mesons while the neutrino energy is estimated from the missing energy of the event. The mean value of xewd, the energy of the weakly-decaying B meson normalised to the beam energy, is found to be mxewd = 0.716 +- 0.006 (stat) +- 0.006 (syst) using a model-independent method; the corresponding value for the energy of the leading B meson is mxel = 0.736 +- 0.006 (stat) +- 0.006 (syst). The reconstructed spectra are compared with different fragmentation models.
Observation of Higgs boson decay to bottom quarks. The observation of the standard model (SM) Higgs boson decay to a pair of bottom quarks is presented. The main contribution to this result is from processes in which Higgs bosons are produced in association with a W or Z boson (VH), and are searched for in final states including 0, 1, or 2 charged leptons and two identified bottom quark jets. The results from the measurement of these processes in a data sample recorded by the CMS experiment in 2017, comprising 41.3 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV, are described. When combined with previous VH measurements using data collected at √(s)= 7, 8, and 13 TeV, an excess of events is observed at m_H = 125.09 GeV with a significance of 4.8 standard deviations, where the expectation for the SM Higgs boson is 4.9. The corresponding measured signal strength is 1.01 ± 0.22. The combination of this result with searches by the CMS experiment for H →bb in other production processes yields an observed (expected) significance of 5.6 (5.5) standard deviations and a signal strength of 1.04 ± 0.20.
Measurement of the B^+ and B^0 lifetimes and search for CP(T) violation using reconstructed secondary vertices. The lifetimes of the B+ and B0 mesons, and their ratio, have been measured in the OPAL experiment using 2.4 million hadronic Z0 decays recorded at LEP. Z0 -> b bbar decays were tagged using displaced secondary vertices and high momentum electrons and muons. The lifetimes were then measured using well-reconstructed charged and neutral secondary vertices selected in this tagged data sample. The results are tau(B+) = 1.643 +- 0.037 +- 0.025 ps tau(B0) = 1.523 +- 0.057 +- 0.053 ps ratio tau(B+)/tau(B0) = 1.079 +- 0.064 +- 0.041 where in each case the first error is statistical and the second systematic. A larger data sample of 3.1 million hadronic Z0 decays has been used to search for CP and CPT violating effects by comparison of inclusive b and bbar hadron decays. No evidence for such effects is seen. The CP violation parameter Re(epsilon_B) is measured to be Re(epsilon_B) = 0.001 +- 0.014 +- 0.003 and the fractional difference between b and bbar hadron lifetimes is measured to be -0.001 +- 0.012 +- 0.008
Properties of g→ bb̅ at small opening angles in pp collisions with the ATLAS detector at √(s)=13 TeV. The fragmentation of high-energy gluons at small opening angles is largely unconstrained by present measurements.  Gluon splitting to b-quark pairs is a unique probe into the properties of gluon fragmentation because identified b-tagged jets provide a proxy for the quark daughters of the initial gluon.  In this study, key differential distributions related to the g→ bb̅ process are measured using 33 fb^-1 of √(s)=13 TeV pp collision data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in 2016.  Jets constructed from charged-particle tracks, clustered with the anti-k_t jet algorithm with radius parameter R = 0.2, are used to probe angular scales below the R=0.4 jet radius.  The observables are unfolded to particle level in order to facilitate direct comparisons with predictions from present and future simulations.  Multiple significant differences are observed between the data and parton shower Monte Carlo predictions, providing input to improve these predictions of the main source of background events in analyses involving boosted Higgs bosons decaying into b-quarks.
Flavour independent search for Higgs bosons decaying into hadronic final states in e+e- collisions. A search for the Higgsstrahlung process e+e- -> hZ is described, where the neutral Higgs boson h is assumed to decay into hadronic final states. In order to be sensitive to a broad range of models, the search is performed independent of the flavour content of the Higgs boson decay. The analysis is based on e+e- collision data collected by the OPAL detector at energies between 192 GeV and 209 GeV. The search does not reveal any significant excess over the Standard Model background prediction. Results are combined with previous searches at energies around 91 GeV and at 189 GeV. A limit is set on the product of the cross-section and the hadronic branching ration of the Higgs boson, as a function of the Higgs boson mass. Assuming the hZ coupling predicted by the Standard Model, and a Higgs boson decaying only into hadronic final states, a lower bound of 104 GeV/c2 is set on the mass at the 95% confidence level.
Fiducial and differential cross sections of Higgs boson production measured in the four-lepton decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV  with the ATLAS detector. Measurements of fiducial and differential cross sections of Higgs boson production in the H → ZZ ^*→ 4ℓ decay channel are presented. The cross sections are determined within a fiducial phase space and corrected for detection efficiency and resolution effects. They are based on 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collision data, produced at √(s)=8 TeV centre-of-mass energy at the LHC and recorded by the ATLAS detector. The differential measurements are performed in bins of transverse momentum and rapidity of the four-lepton system, the invariant mass of the subleading lepton pair and the decay angle of the leading lepton pair with respect to the beam line in the four-lepton rest frame,  as well as the number of jets and the transverse momentum of the leading jet. The measured cross sections are compared to selected theoretical calculations of the Standard Model expectations. No significant deviation from any of the tested predictions is found.
Measurement of the Production Rate of Charm Quark Pairs from Gluons in Hadronic Z^0 Decays. The rate of secondary charm-quark-pair production has been measured in 4.4 million hadronic Z0 decays collected by OPAL. By selecting events with three jets and tagging charmed hadrons in the gluon jet candidate using leptons and charged D* mesons, the average number of secondary charm-quark pairs per hadronic event is found to be (3.20+-0.21+-0.38)x10-2.
Search for a heavy pseudoscalar Higgs boson decaying into a 125 GeV Higgs boson and a Z boson in final states with two tau and two light leptons at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is performed for a pseudoscalar Higgs boson, A, decaying into a 125 GeV Higgs boson h and a Z boson. The h boson is specifically targeted in its decay into a pair of tau leptons, while the Z boson decays into a pair of electrons or muons. A data sample of proton-proton collisions collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC at √(s) = 13 TeV is used, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. No excess above the standard model background expectations is observed in data. A model-independent upper limit is set on the product of the gluon fusion production cross section for the A boson and the branching fraction to Zh→ℓℓττ. The observed upper limit at 95% confidence level ranges from 27 to 5 fb for A boson masses from 220 to 400 GeV, respectively. The results are used to constrain the extended Higgs sector parameters for two benchmark scenarios of the minimal supersymmetric standard model.
Evidence for Higgs boson decay to a pair of muons. Evidence for Higgs boson decay to a pair of muons is presented. This result combines searches in four exclusive categories targeting the production of the Higgs boson via gluon fusion, via vector boson fusion, in association with a vector boson, and in association with a top quark-antiquark pair. The analysis is performed using proton-proton collision data at √(s) = 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137 fb^-1 , recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC. An excess of events over the background expectation is observed in data with a significance of 3.0 standard deviations, where the expectation for the standard model (SM) Higgs boson with mass of 125.38 GeV is 2.5. The combination of this result with that from data recorded at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 5.1 and 19.7 fb^-1, respectively, increases both the expected and observed significances by 1%. The measured signal strength, relative to the SM prediction, is 1.19^+0.40_-0.39 (stat)^+0.15_-0.14 (syst). This result constitutes the first evidence for the decay of the Higgs boson to second generation fermions and is the most precise measurement of the Higgs boson coupling to muons reported to date.
Observation of ttH production. The observation of Higgs boson production in association with a top quark-antiquark pair is reported, based on a combined analysis of proton-proton collision data at center-of-mass energies of √(s)= 7, 8, and 13 TeV, corresponding to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1, 19.7, and 35.9 fb^-1, respectively. The data were collected with the CMS detector at the CERN LHC. The results of statistically independent searches for Higgs bosons produced in conjunction with a top quark-antiquark pair and decaying to pairs of W bosons, Z bosons, photons, τ leptons, or bottom quark jets are combined to maximize sensitivity. An excess of events is observed, with a significance of 5.2 standard deviations, over the expectation from the background-only hypothesis. The corresponding expected significance from the standard model for a Higgs boson mass of 125.09 GeV is 4.2 standard deviations. The combined best fit signal strength normalized to the standard model prediction is 1.26 ^+0.31_-0.26.
Search for the decay of a Higgs boson in the ℓℓγ channel in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for a Higgs boson decaying into a pair of electrons or muons and a photon is described. Higgs boson decays to a Z boson and a photon (H→Zγ→ℓℓγ, ℓ=e or μ), or to two photons, one of which has an internal conversion into a muon pair (H→γ^*γ→μμγ) were considered. The analysis is performed using a data set recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. No significant excess above the background prediction has been found. Limits are set on the cross section for a standard model Higgs boson decaying to opposite-sign electron or muon pairs and a photon. The observed limits on cross section times the corresponding branching fractions vary between 1.4 and 4.0 (6.1 and 11.4) times the standard model cross section for H→γ^*γ→μμγ (H→Zγ→ℓℓγ) in the 120-130 GeV mass range of the ℓℓγ system. The H→γ^*γ→μμγ and H→Zγ→ℓℓγ analyses are combined for m_H = 125 GeV, obtaining an observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper limit of 3.9 (2.0) times the standard model cross section.
Search for Higgs boson decays to beyond-the-Standard-Model light bosons in four-lepton events with the ATLAS detector at √(s)=13 TeV. A search is conducted for a new beyond-the-Standard-Model boson using events where a Higgs boson with mass 125 GeV decays to four leptons (ℓ = e or μ). This decay is presumed to occur via an intermediate state which contains one or two on-shell, promptly decaying bosons: H→ ZX/XX → 4ℓ, where X is a new vector boson Z_d or pseudoscalar a with mass between 1 and 60 GeV. The search uses pp collision data collected with the ATLAS detector at the LHC with an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy √(s)=13 TeV. No significant excess of events above Standard Model background predictions is observed; therefore, upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on model-independent fiducial cross-sections, and on the Higgs boson decay branching ratios to vector and pseudoscalar bosons in two benchmark models.
Search for new light gauge bosons in Higgs boson decays to four-lepton final states in pp collisions at √(s)=8TeV with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. This paper presents a search for Higgs bosons decaying to four leptons, either electrons or muons, via one or two light exotic gauge bosons Z_d, H→ Z Z_d → 4ℓ or H→ Z_d Z_d → 4ℓ. The search was performed using pp collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of about 20 fb^-1 at the center-of-mass energy of √(s)=8TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The observed data are well described by the Standard Model prediction. Upper bounds on the branching ratio of H→ Z Z_d → 4ℓ and on the kinetic mixing parameter between the Z_d and the Standard Model hypercharge gauge boson are set in the range (1–9)×10^-5 and (4–17)×10^-2 respectively, at 95% confidence level assuming the Standard Model branching ratio of H→ Z Z^* → 4ℓ, for Z_d masses between 15 and 55 GeV. Upper bounds on the effective mass mixing parameter between the Z and the Z_d are also set using the branching ratio limits in the H → ZZ_d→ 4ℓ search, and are in the range (1.5–8.7)× 10^-4 for 15<m_Z_d < 35 GeV. Upper bounds on the branching ratio of H→ Z_dZ_d → 4ℓ and on Higgs portal coupling parameter, controlling the strength of the coupling of the Higgs boson to dark vector bosons, are set in the range (2–3)×10^-5 and (1–10)× 10^-4 respectively, at 95 % confidence level assuming the Standard Model Higgs boson production cross sections, for Z_d masses between 15 and 60 GeV.
A search for resonant and non-resonant Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅τ^+τ^- decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for resonant and non-resonant pair production of Higgs bosons in the bb̅τ^+τ^- final state is presented. The search uses 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collision data with √(s)= 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in 2015 and 2016. The semileptonic and fully hadronic decays of the τ-lepton pair are considered. No significant excess above the expected background is observed in the data. The cross-section times branching ratio for non-resonant Higgs boson pair production is constrained to be less than 30.9 fb, 12.7 times the Standard Model expectation, at 95% confidence level. The data are also analyzed to probe resonant Higgs boson pair production, constraining a model with an extended Higgs sector based on two doublets and a Randall-Sundrum bulk graviton model. Upper limits are placed on the resonant Higgs boson pair production cross-section times branching ratio, excluding resonances X in the mass range 305  GeV < m_X < 402  GeV in the simplified hMSSM minimal supersymmetric model for tanβ=2 and excluding bulk Randall-Sundrum gravitons G_KK in the mass range 325  GeV < m_G_KK < 885  GeV for k/M_Pl = 1.
Search for Charged Higgs Bosons at LEP. A search for pair-produced charged Higgs bosons is performed with the L3 detector at LEP using data collected at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 629.4/pb. Decays into a charm and a strange quark or into a tau lepton and its neutrino are considered. No significant excess is observed and lower limits on the mass of the charged Higgs boson are derived at the 95% confidence level. They vary from 76.5 to 82.7GeV, as a function of the H->tv branching ratio.
Observation of the diphoton decay of the Higgs boson and measurement of its properties. Observation of the diphoton decay mode of the recently discovered Higgs boson and measurement of some of its properties are reported. The analysis uses the entire dataset collected by the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions during the 2011 and 2012 LHC running periods. The data samples correspond to integrated luminosities of 5.1 fb^-1 at √(s) = 7 TeV and 19.7 fb^-1 at 8 TeV. A clear signal is observed in the diphoton channel at a mass close to 125 GeV with a local significance of 5.7 σ, where a significance of 5.2 σ is expected for the standard model Higgs boson. The mass is measured to be 124.70 ± 0.34 GeV = 124.70 ± 0.31 (stat) ± 0.15 (syst) GeV, and the best-fit signal strength relative to the standard model prediction is 1.14^+0.26_-0.23 =1.14 ± 0.21 (stat) ^+0.09_-0.05 (syst) ^+0.13_-0.09 (theo). Additional measurements include the signal strength modifiers associated with different production mechanisms, and hypothesis tests between spin-0 and spin-2 models.
Search for heavy resonances that decay into a vector boson and a Higgs boson in hadronic final states at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for heavy resonances with masses above 1 TeV, decaying to final states containing a vector boson and a Higgs boson, is presented. The search considers hadronic decays of the vector boson, and Higgs boson decays to b quarks. The decay products are highly boosted, and each collimated pair of quarks is reconstructed as a single, massive jet. The analysis is performed using a data sample collected in 2016 by the CMS experiment at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 inverse femtobarns. The data are consistent with the background expectation and are used to place limits on the parameters of a theoretical model with a heavy vector triplet. In the benchmark scenario with mass-degenerate W' and Z' bosons decaying predominantly to pairs of standard model bosons, for the first time heavy resonances for masses as high as 3.3 TeV are excluded at 95% confidence level, setting the most stringent limit to date on such states decaying into a vector boson and a Higgs boson.
Evidence for the 125 GeV Higgs boson decaying to a pair of τ leptons. A search for a standard model Higgs boson decaying into a pair of tau leptons is performed using events recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2011 and 2012. The dataset corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.9 inverse-femtobarns at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV, and 19.7 inverse-femtobarns at 8 TeV. Each tau lepton decays hadronically or leptonically to an electron or a muon, leading to six different final states for the tau-lepton pair, all considered in this analysis. An excess of events is observed over the expected background contributions, with a local significance larger than 3 standard deviations for m_H values between 115 and 130 GeV. The best fit of the observed H →τ-τ signal cross section for m_H = 125 GeV is 0.78 +/- 0.27 times the standard model expectation. These observations constitute evidence for the 125 GeV Higgs boson decaying to a pair of tau leptons.
Search for Higgs boson decays into a pair of light bosons in the bbμμ final state in pp collision at √(s) =13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for decays of the Higgs boson into a pair of new spin-zero particles, H → aa,  where the a-bosons decay into a b-quark pair and muon pair, is presented. The search uses 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s)=13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in 2015 and 2016.  No significant deviation from the Standard Model prediction is observed.  Upper limits at  95% confidence level are placed on the branching ratio (σ_H / σ_SM) × B(H→ aa→ bbμμ), ranging from 2× 10^-4 to 10^-3 in the a-boson mass range of 20-60 GeV. Model-independent limits are set on the visible production cross-section times the branching ratio to the bbμμ final state for new physics, σ_vis(X) × B(X→ bbμμ), ranging from 0.1 fb to 0.73 fb for m_μμ between 18 and 62 GeV.
Searches for Higgs bosons in pp collisions at √(s) = 7 and 8 TeV in the context of four-generation and fermiophobic models. Searches are reported for Higgs bosons in the context of either the standard model extended to include a fourth generation of fermions (SM4) with masses of up to 600 GeV or fermiophobic models. For the former, results from three decay modes (ττ, WW, and ZZ) are combined, whilst for the latter the diphoton decay is exploited. The analysed proton-proton collision data correspond to integrated luminosities of up to 5.1 inverse femtobarns at 7 TeV and up to 5.3 inverse femtobarns at 8 TeV. The observed results exclude the SM4 Higgs boson in the mass range 110-600 GeV at 99% confidence level (CL), and in the mass range 110-560 GeV at 99.9% CL. A fermiophobic Higgs boson is excluded in the mass range 110-147 GeV at 95% CL, and in the range 110-134 GeV at 99% CL. The recently observed boson with a mass near 125 GeV is not consistent with either an SM4 or a fermiophobic Higgs boson.
Search for a Higgs Boson Decaying into Two Photons at LEP. A Higgs particle produced in association with a Z boson and decaying into two photons is searched for in the data collected by the L3 experiment at LEP. All possible decay modes of the Z boson are investigated. No signal is observed in 447.5 pb^-1 of data recorded at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV. Limits on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson decay into two photons as a function of the Higgs mass are derived. A lower limit on the mass of a fermiophobic Higgs boson is set at 105.4 GeV at 95% confidence level.
Search for non-minimal Higgs bosons in Z0 decays.
Search for an exotic decay of the Higgs boson to a pair of light pseudoscalars in the final state of two muons and two τ leptons in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for exotic Higgs boson decays to light pseudoscalars in the final state of two muons and two τ leptons is performed using proton-proton collision data recorded by the CMS experiment at the LHC at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV in 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Masses of the pseudoscalar boson between 15.0 and 62.5 GeV are probed, and no significant excess of data is observed above the prediction of the standard model. Upper limits are set on the branching fraction of the Higgs boson to two light pseudoscalar bosons in different types of two-Higgs-doublet models extended with a complex scalar singlet.
Evidence for the direct decay of the 125 GeV Higgs boson to fermions. The discovery of a new boson with a mass of approximately 125 GeV in 2012 at the LHC has heralded a new era in understanding the nature of electroweak symmetry breaking and possibly completing the standard model of particle physics. Since the first observation in decays to gamma-gamma, WW, and ZZ boson pairs, an extensive set of measurements of the mass and couplings to W and Z bosons, as well as multiple tests of the spin-parity quantum numbers, have revealed that the properties of the new boson are consistent with those of the long-sought agent responsible for electroweak symmetry breaking. An important open question is whether the new particle also couples to fermions, and in particular to down-type fermions, since the current measurements mainly constrain the couplings to the up-type top quark. Determination of the couplings to down-type fermions requires direct measurement of the corresponding Higgs boson decays, as recently reported by the CMS experiment in the study of Higgs decays to bottom quarks and tau-leptons. In this paper we report the combination of these two channels which results, for the first time, in strong evidence for the direct coupling of the 125-GeV Higgs boson to down-type fermions, with an observed significance of 3.8 standard deviations, when 4.4 are expected.
Search for a heavy Standard Model Higgs boson in the channel H → ZZ → l^+ l^-qq using the ATLAS detector. A search for a heavy Standard Model Higgs boson decaying via H->ZZ->llqq, where l=e,mu, is presented. The search is performed using a data set of pp collisions at sqrt(s)=7 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 1.04 fb^-1 collected in 2011 by the ATLAS detector at the CERN LHC collider. No significant excess of events above the estimated background is found. Upper limits at 95% confidence level on the production cross section (relative to that expected from the Standard Model) of a Higgs boson with a mass in the range between 200 and 600 GeV are derived. Within this mass range, there is at present insufficient sensitivity to exclude a Standard Model Higgs boson. For a Higgs boson with a mass of 360 GeV, where the sensitivity is maximal, the observed and expected cross section upper limits are factors of 1.7 and 2.7, respectively, larger than the Standard Model prediction.
Observation of electroweak production of two jets and a Z-boson pair  with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. Electroweak symmetry breaking explains the origin of the masses of elementary particles via their interactions with the Higgs field. Besides the measurements of the Higgs boson properties, the study of the scattering of massive vector bosons (with spin one) at the Large Hadron Collider allows to probe the nature of electroweak symmetry breaking with an unprecedented sensitivity. Among all processes related to vector-boson scattering, the electroweak production of two jets and a Z-boson pair is a rare and important one. This article reports on the first observation of this process using proton-proton collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector. Two different final states originating from the decays of the Z-boson pair, one containing four charged leptons and the other containing two charged leptons and two neutrinos, are considered. The hypothesis of no electroweak production is rejected with a statistical significance of 5.5 σ, and the measured cross-section for electroweak production is consistent with the Standard Model prediction. In addition, cross-sections for inclusive production of a Z-boson pair and two jets are reported for the two final states.
Search for pair production of heavy vector-like quarks decaying into hadronic final states in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search is presented for the pair production of heavy vector-like quarks, TT̅ or BB̅, that decay into final states with jets and no reconstructed leptons. Jets in the final state are classified using a deep neural network as arising from hadronically decaying W/Z bosons, Higgs bosons, top quarks, or background. The analysis uses data from the ATLAS experiment corresponding to 36.1 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions with a center-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV delivered by the Large Hadron Collider in 2015 and 2016. No significant deviation from the Standard Model expectation is observed. Results are interpreted assuming the vector-like quarks decay into a Standard Model boson and a third-generation-quark, T→ Wb,Ht,Zt or B→ Wt,Hb,Zb, for a variety of branching ratios.  At 95% confidence level, the observed (expected) lower limit on the vector-like B-quark mass for a weak-isospin doublet (B, Y) is 950 (890) GeV, and the lower limits on the masses for the pure decays B→ Hb and T→ Ht, where these results are strongest, are 1010 (970) GeV and 1010 (1010) GeV, respectively.
Search for new light gauge bosons in Higgs boson decays to four-lepton final states in pp collisions at √(s)=8TeV with the ATLAS detector at the LHC. This paper presents a search for Higgs bosons decaying to four leptons, either electrons or muons, via one or two light exotic gauge bosons Z_d, H→ Z Z_d → 4ℓ or H→ Z_d Z_d → 4ℓ. The search was performed using pp collision data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of about 20 fb^-1 at the center-of-mass energy of √(s)=8TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The observed data are well described by the Standard Model prediction. Upper bounds on the branching ratio of H→ Z Z_d → 4ℓ and on the kinetic mixing parameter between the Z_d and the Standard Model hypercharge gauge boson are set in the range (1–9)×10^-5 and (4–17)×10^-2 respectively, at 95% confidence level assuming the Standard Model branching ratio of H→ Z Z^* → 4ℓ, for Z_d masses between 15 and 55 GeV. Upper bounds on the effective mass mixing parameter between the Z and the Z_d are also set using the branching ratio limits in the H → ZZ_d→ 4ℓ search, and are in the range (1.5–8.7)× 10^-4 for 15<m_Z_d < 35 GeV. Upper bounds on the branching ratio of H→ Z_dZ_d → 4ℓ and on Higgs portal coupling parameter, controlling the strength of the coupling of the Higgs boson to dark vector bosons, are set in the range (2–3)×10^-5 and (1–10)× 10^-4 respectively, at 95 % confidence level assuming the Standard Model Higgs boson production cross sections, for Z_d masses between 15 and 60 GeV.
Search for Higgs bosons and new particles decaying into two photons at √(s) = 183 GeV. A search for the resonant production of high mass photon pairs associated with a leptonic or hadronic system has been performed using a data sample of 57.7 pb-1 collected at an average center-of-mass energy of 182.6 GeV with the OPAL detector at LEP. No evidence for contributions from non-Standard Model physics processes was observed. The observed candidates are used to place limits on BR (H to gamma gamma) assuming a Standard Model production rate for Higgs boson masses up to 92 GeV, and on the production cross section for a scalar resonance decaying into di-photons up to a mass of 170 GeV. Upper limits on the product of cross section and branching ratios, sigma(e+e- to XY) * BR(X to gamma gamma) * BR(Y to f fbar) as low as 70fb are obtained over the M(X) range 10 - 170 GeV for the case where 10 < M(Y) < 160 GeV and M(X)+M(Y) > 90 GeV, independent of the nature of Y provided it decays to a fermion pair and has negligible width. Higgs scalars which couple only to gauge bosons at Standard Model strength are ruled out up to a mass of 90.0 GeV at the 95% confidence level. Limits are also placed on non-minimal Higgs sectors having triplet representations.
Measurement of the Branching Ratio for the Process b →τ^-ν_τX. The inclusive branching ratio for the process b -> tau nu X has been measured using hadronic Z decays collected by the OPAL experiment at LEP in the years 1992-2000. The result is: BR(b -> tau nu X) = (2.78 +/- 0.18 +/- 0.51)% This measurement is consistent with the Standard Model expectation and puts a constraint of tan(beta) / M(H+/-) < 0.53 GeV-1 at the 95% confidence level on Type II Two Higgs Doublet Models.
Search for dark matter produced in association with a Higgs boson decaying to two bottom quarks in pp collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. This article reports on a search for dark matter pair production in association with a Higgs boson decaying to a pair of bottom quarks, using data from 20.3 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC. The decay of the Higgs boson is reconstructed as a high-momentum bb̅ system with either a pair of small-radius jets, or a single large-radius jet with substructure.  The observed data are found to be consistent with the expected Standard Model backgrounds. Model-independent upper limits are placed on the visible cross-sections for events with a Higgs boson decaying into bb̅ and large missing transverse momentum with thresholds ranging from 150 GeV to 400 GeV. Results are interpreted using a simplified model with a Z^' gauge boson decaying into different Higgs bosons predicted in a two-Higgs-doublet model,  of which the heavy pseudoscalar Higgs decays into a pair of dark matter particles.  Exclusion limits are also presented for the mass scales of various effective field theory operators that describe the interaction between dark matter particles and the Higgs boson.
Search for charged Higgs bosons produced via vector boson fusion and decaying into a pair of W and Z bosons using proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for charged Higgs bosons produced in vector boson fusion processes and decaying into W and Z A search for charged Higgs bosons produced via vector boson fusion and decaying into W and Z bosons using proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV is presented. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 15.2 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector in 2015 and 2016. The event selection requires three leptons (electrons or muons), two jets with large pseudorapidity separation and high dijet mass, and missing transverse momentum. The observation agrees with the standard model prediction. Limits on the vector boson fusion production cross section times branching fraction for new charged physical states are reported as a function of mass from 200 to 2000 GeV and interpreted in the context of Higgs triplet models.
Searches for supersymmetry using the M_T2 variable in hadronic events produced in pp collisions at 8 TeV. Searches for supersymmetry (SUSY) are performed using a sample of hadronic events produced in 8 TeV pp collisions at the CERN LHC. The searches are based on the M_T2 variable, which is a measure of the transverse momentum imbalance in an event. The data were collected with the CMS detector and correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.5 fb^-1. Two related searches are performed. The first is an inclusive search based on signal regions defined by the value of the M_T2 variable, the hadronic energy in the event, the jet multiplicity, and the number of jets identified as originating from bottom quarks. The second is a search for a mass peak corresponding to a Higgs boson decaying to a bottom quark-antiquark pair, where the Higgs boson is produced as a decay product of a SUSY particle. For both searches, the principal backgrounds are evaluated with data control samples. No significant excess over the expected number of background events is observed, and exclusion limits on various SUSY models are derived.
Flavour Independent h^0A^0 Search and Two Higgs Doublet Model Interpretation of Neutral Higgs Boson Searches at LEP. Upper limits on the cross-section of the pair-production process e+e- -> h0A0 assuming 100% decays into hadrons, are derived from a new search for the h0A0 -> hadrons topology, independent of the hadronic flavour of the decay products. Searches for the neutral Higgs bosons h0 and A0, are used to obtain constraints on the Type II Two Higgs Doublet Model (2HDM(11)) with no CP violation in the Higgs sector and no additional non Standard Model particles besides the five Higgs bosons. The analysis combines LEP1 and LEP2 data collected with the OPAL detctor up to the highest available centre-of-mass energies. The searches are sensitive to the h0, A0 -> qq, gg,tau+tau- and h0 -> A0A0 decay modes of the Higgs bosons. The 2HDM(II) parameter space is explored in a detailed scan. Large regions of the 2HDM(II) parameter space are excluded at the 95% CL in the (mh, mA), (mh, tanb) and (mA, tanb) planes, using both direct neutral Higgs boson searches and indirect limits derived from Standard Model high precision measurements. The region 1 lesssim mh lesssim 55 GeV and 3 lesssim mA lesssim 63 GeV is excluded at 95% CL independently of the choice of the 2HDM(II) parameters.
Electroweak Measurements in Electron-Positron Collisions at W-Boson-Pair Energies at LEP. Electroweak measurements performed with data taken at the electron-positron collider LEP at CERN from 1995 to 2000 are reported. The combined data set considered in this report corresponds to a total luminosity of about 3 fb^-1 collected by the four LEP experiments ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 130 GeV to 209 GeV. Combining the published results of the four LEP experiments, the measurements include total and differential cross-sections in photon-pair, fermion-pair and four-fermion production, the latter resulting from both double-resonant WW and ZZ production as well as singly resonant production. Total and differential cross-sections are measured precisely, providing a stringent test of the Standard Model at centre-of-mass energies never explored before in electron-positron collisions. Final-state interaction effects in four-fermion production, such as those arising from colour reconnection and Bose-Einstein correlations between the two W decay systems arising in WW production, are searched for and upper limits on the strength of possible effects are obtained. The data are used to determine fundamental properties of the W boson and the electroweak theory. Among others, the mass and width of the W boson, M_W and Γ_W, the branching fraction of W decays to hadrons, B(W→had), and the trilinear gauge-boson self-couplings g^Z_1, κ_γ and λ_γ are determined to be: m_W = 80.376 ± 0.033 GeV Γ_W = 2.195 ± 0.083 GeV B(W →had) = 67.41 ± 0.27% g^Z_1 = 0.984 ^+0.018_-0.020 κ_γ = 0.982 ± 0.042 λ_γ = -0.022 ± 0.019
A search for resonant and non-resonant Higgs boson pair production in the bb̅τ^+τ^- decay channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for resonant and non-resonant pair production of Higgs bosons in the bb̅τ^+τ^- final state is presented. The search uses 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collision data with √(s)= 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in 2015 and 2016. The semileptonic and fully hadronic decays of the τ-lepton pair are considered. No significant excess above the expected background is observed in the data. The cross-section times branching ratio for non-resonant Higgs boson pair production is constrained to be less than 30.9 fb, 12.7 times the Standard Model expectation, at 95% confidence level. The data are also analyzed to probe resonant Higgs boson pair production, constraining a model with an extended Higgs sector based on two doublets and a Randall-Sundrum bulk graviton model. Upper limits are placed on the resonant Higgs boson pair production cross-section times branching ratio, excluding resonances X in the mass range 305  GeV < m_X < 402  GeV in the simplified hMSSM minimal supersymmetric model for tanβ=2 and excluding bulk Randall-Sundrum gravitons G_KK in the mass range 325  GeV < m_G_KK < 885  GeV for k/M_Pl = 1.
Search for an invisibly decaying Higgs boson or dark matter candidates produced in association with a Z boson in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for an invisibly decaying Higgs boson or dark matter candidates produced in association with a leptonically decaying Z boson in proton–proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV is presented. This search uses 36.1 fb^-1 of data collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. No significant deviation from the expectation of the Standard Model backgrounds is observed. Assuming the Standard Model ZH production cross-section, an observed (expected) upper limit of 67% (39%) at the 95% confidence level is set on the branching ratio of invisible decays of the Higgs boson with mass m_H = 125 GeV. The corresponding limits on the production cross-section of the ZH process with the invisible Higgs boson decays are also presented. Furthermore, exclusion limits on the dark matter candidate and mediator masses are reported in the framework of simplified dark matter models.
Limits on Higgs boson masses from combining the data of the four LEP experiments at √(s)≤ 183 GeV.
Search for the Higgs boson produced in association with a vector boson and decaying into two spin-zero particles in the H → aa → 4b channel in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for exotic decays of the Higgs boson into a pair of spin-zero particles, H → aa, where the a-boson decays into b-quarks promptly or with a mean proper lifetime cτ_a up to 6 mm and has a mass in the range of 20-60 GeV, is presented. The search is performed in events where the Higgs boson is produced in association with a W or Z boson, giving rise to a signature of one or two charged leptons (electrons or muons) and multiple jets from b-quark decays. The analysis is based on the dataset of proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded in 2015 and 2016 by the ATLAS detector at the CERN Large Hadron Collider, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. No significant excess of events above the Standard Model background prediction is observed, and 95% confidence-level upper limits are derived for the production cross-sections for pp → WH, ZH and their combination, times the branching ratio of the decay chain H → aa → 4b. For a-bosons which decay promptly, the upper limit on the combination of cross-sections for WH and ZH times the branching ratio of H → aa → 4b ranges from 3.0 pb for m_a= 20 GeV to 1.3 pb for m_a = 60 GeV, assuming that the ratio of WH to ZH cross-sections follows the Standard Model prediction. For a-bosons with longer proper lifetimes, the most stringent limits are 1.8 pb and 0.6 pb, respectively, at cτ_a ∼ 0.4 mm.
Search for dark matter produced with an energetic jet or a hadronically decaying W or Z boson at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for dark matter particles is performed using events with large missing transverse momentum, at least one energetic jet, and no leptons, in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. The data sample corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 12.9 fb^-1. The search includes events with jets from the hadronic decays of a W or Z boson. The data are found to be in agreement with the predicted background contributions from standard model processes. The results are presented in terms of simplified models in which dark matter particles are produced through interactions involving a vector, axial-vector, scalar, or pseudoscalar mediator. Vector and axial-vector mediator particles with masses up to 1.95 TeV, and scalar and pseudoscalar mediator particles with masses up to 100 and 430 GeV respectively, are excluded at 95% confidence level. The results are also interpreted in terms of the invisible decays of the Higgs boson, yielding an observed (expected) 95% confidence level upper limit of 0.44 (0.56) on the corresponding branching fraction. The results of this search provide the strongest constraints on the dark matter pair production cross section through vector and axial-vector mediators at a particle collider. When compared to the direct detection experiments, the limits obtained from this search provide stronger constraints for dark matter masses less than 5, 9, and 550 GeV, assuming vector, scalar, and axial-vector mediators, respectively. The search yields stronger constraints for dark matter masses less than 200 GeV, assuming a pseudoscalar mediator, when compared to the indirect detection results from Fermi-LAT.
Combined measurement of differential and total cross sections in the H →γγ and the H → ZZ^* → 4ℓ decay channels at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A combined measurement of differential and inclusive total cross sections of Higgs boson production is performed using 36.1 fb^-1 of 13 TeV proton–proton collision data produced by the LHC and recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016. Cross sections are obtained from measured H →γγ and H → ZZ^∗→ 4ℓ event yields, which are combined taking into account detector efficiencies, resolution, acceptances and branching fractions. The total Higgs boson production cross section is measured to be 57.0^+6.0_-5.9 (stat.) ^+4.0_-3.3 (syst.) pb, in agreement with the Standard Model prediction. Differential cross-section measurements are presented for the Higgs boson transverse momentum distribution, Higgs boson rapidity, number of jets produced together with the Higgs boson, and the transverse momentum of the leading jet. The results from the two decay channels are found to be compatible, and their combination agrees with the Standard Model predictions.
Search for MSSM Higgs bosons decaying to μ^+μ^- in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeVSearch for MSSM Higgs bosons decaying to μ^+μ^- in proton-proton collisions at √(s)= 13 TeV. A search is performed for neutral non-standard-model Higgs bosons decaying to two muons in the context of the minimal supersymmetric standard model (MSSM). Proton-proton collision data recorded by the CMS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV were used, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. The search is sensitive to neutral Higgs bosons produced via the gluon fusion process or in association with a bb̅ quark pair. No significant deviations from the standard model expectation are observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set in the context of the m_h^mod+ and phenomenological MSSM scenarios on the parameter tanβ as a function of the mass of the pseudoscalar A boson, in the range from 130 to 600 GeV. The results are also used to set a model-independent limit on the product of the branching fraction for the decay into a muon pair and the cross section for the production of a scalar neutral boson, either via gluon fusion, or in association with b quarks, in the mass range from 130 to 1000 GeV.
Search for new phenomena in events with three or more charged leptons in pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A generic search for anomalous production of events with at least three charged leptons is presented.  The data sample consists of pp collisions at √(s)=8 TeV collected in 2012 by the ATLAS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider, and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 20.3 fb^-1.  Events are required to have at least three selected lepton candidates, at least two of which must be electrons or muons, while the third may be a hadronically decaying tau.  Selected events are categorized based on their lepton flavour content and signal regions are constructed using several kinematic variables of interest.  No significant deviations from Standard Model predictions are observed.  Model-independent upper limits on contributions from beyond the Standard Model phenomena are provided for each signal region, along with prescription to re-interpret the limits for any model.  Constraints are also placed on models predicting doubly charged Higgs bosons and excited leptons.  For doubly charged Higgs bosons decaying to eτ or μτ, lower limits on the mass are set at 400 GeV at 95% confidence level.  For excited leptons, constraints are provided as functions of both the mass of the excited state and the compositeness scale Λ, with the strongest mass constraints arising in regions where the mass equals Λ.  In such scenarios, lower mass limits are set at 2.0 TeV for excited electrons and muons, 1.8 TeV for excited taus, and 1.6 TeV for every excited-neutrino flavour.
Search for pair production of vector-like T and B quarks in single-lepton final states using boosted jet substructure techniques at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search for pair production of massive vector-like T and B quarks in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV is presented. The data set was collected in 2015 by the CMS experiment at the LHC and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of up to 2.6 fb^-1. The T and B quarks are assumed to decay through three possible channels into a heavy boson (either a W, Z or Higgs boson) and a third generation quark. This search is performed in final states with one charged lepton and several jets, exploiting techniques to identify W or Higgs bosons decaying hadronically with large transverse momenta. No excess over the predicted standard model background is observed. Upper limits at 95% confidence level on the T quark pair production cross section are set that exclude T quark masses below 860 GeV in the singlet, and below 830 GeV in the doublet branching fraction scenario. For other branching fraction combinations with ℬ( t  H ) + ℬ( b  W ) ≥ 0.4, lower limits on the T quark range from 790 to 940 GeV. Limits are also set on pair production of singlet vector-like B quarks, which can be excluded up to a mass of 730 GeV. These limits are among the most stringent to date for vector-like T quarks. The techniques showcased here for understanding highly-boosted final states are important as the sensitivity to new particles is extended to higher masses.
Search for direct production of charginos and neutralinos in events with three leptons and missing transverse momentum in √(s) = 8 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. A search for the direct production of charginos and neutralinos in final states with three leptons and missing transverse momentum is presented. The analysis is based on 20.3 fb^−1 of √(s) = 8 TeV proton-proton collision data delivered by the Large Hadron Collider and recorded with the ATLAS detector. Observations are consistent with the Standard Model expectations and limits are set in R-parity-conserving phenomenological Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Models and in simplified supersymmetric models, significantly extending previous results.  For simplified supersymmetric models of direct chargino (χ̃^±_1) and next-to-lightest neutralino (χ̃_2^0) production with decays to lightest neutralino (χ̃_1^0) via either all three generations of sleptons, staus only, gauge bosons, or Higgs bosons, χ̃^±_1 and χ̃_2^0 masses are excluded up to 700 GeV, 380 GeV, 345 GeV, or 148 GeV respectively, for a massless χ̃_1^0.
Search for an exotic decay of the Higgs boson to a pair of light pseudoscalars in the final state with two muons and two b quarks in pp collisions at 13 TeV. A search for exotic decays of the Higgs boson to a pair of light pseudoscalar particles a_1 is performed under the hypothesis that one of the pseudoscalars decays to a pair of opposite sign muons and the other decays to bb̅. Such signatures are predicted in a number of extensions of the standard model (SM), including next-to-minimal supersymmetry and two-Higgs-doublet models with an additional scalar singlet. The results are based on a data set of proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1, accumulated with the CMS experiment at the CERN LHC in 2016 at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. No statistically significant excess is observed with respect to the SM backgrounds in the search region for pseudoscalar masses from 20 GeV to half of the Higgs boson mass. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the product of the production cross section and branching fraction, σ_hℬ(h→a_1a_1→μ^+μ^-bb̅), ranging from 5 to 36 fb, depending on the pseudoscalar mass. Corresponding limits on the branching fraction, assuming the SM prediction for σ_h, are (1-6)× 10^-4.
Search for Heavy Isosinglet Neutrinos in e^+ e^- Annihilation at 130 < √(s) < 189 GeV. A search for heavy neutrinos that are isosinglets under the standard SU(2)_L gauge group is made at center-of-mass energies 130 < √(s) < 189 GeV with the L3 detector at LEP. Such heavy neutrinos are expected in many extensions of the Standard Model. The search is performed for the first generation heavy singlet neutrino, N_e, through the decay mode N_e →e + W. We set upper limits on the mixing parameter between the heavy and light neutrino for the heavy neutrino mass range from 80 GeV to 185 GeV.
Search for exotic decays of a Higgs boson into undetectable particles and one or more photons. A search is presented for exotic decays of a Higgs boson into undetectable particles and one or two isolated photons in pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. The data correspond to an integrated luminosity of up to 19.4 fb^-1 collected with the CMS detector at the LHC. Higgs bosons produced in gluon-gluon fusion and in association with a Z boson are investigated, using models in which the Higgs boson decays into a gravitino and a neutralino or a pair of neutralinos, followed by the decay of the neutralino to a gravitino and a photon. The selected events are consistent with the background-only hypothesis, and limits are placed on the product of cross sections and branching fractions. Assuming a standard model Higgs boson production cross-section, a 95% confidence level upper limit is set on the branching fraction of a 125 GeV Higgs boson decaying into undetectable particles and one or two isolated photons as a function of the neutralino mass. For neutralino masses from 1 to 120 GeV an upper limit in the range of 7 to 13% is obtained. Further results are given as a function of the neutralino lifetime, and also for a range of Higgs boson masses.
Tests of the Standard Model and Constraints on New Physics from Measurements of Fermion-Pair Production at 189-209 GeV at LEP. Cross-section and angular distributions for hadronic and lepton-pair final states in e+e- collisions at centre-of-mass energies between 189 GeV and 209 GeV, measured with the OPAL detector at LEP, are presented and compared with the predictions of the Standard Model. The measurements are used to determine the electromagnetic coupling constant alphaem at LEP2 energies. In addition, the results are used together with OPAL measurements at 91-183 GeV within the S-matrix formalism to determine the gamma-Z interference term and to make an almost model-independent measurement of the Z mass. Limits on extensions to the Standard Model described by effective four-fermion contact interactions or the addition of a heavy Z boson are also presented.
Search for Higgs boson off-shell production in proton-proton collisions at 7 and 8 TeV and derivation of constraints on its total decay width. A search is presented for the Higgs boson off-shell production in gluon fusion and vector boson fusion processes with the Higgs boson decaying into a W ^+ W ^- pair and the W bosons decaying leptonically. The data observed in this analysis are used to constrain the Higgs boson total decay width. The analysis is based on the data collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC, corresponding to integrated luminosities of 4.9 fb^-1 at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV and 19.4 fb^-1 at 8 TeV, respectively. An observed (expected) upper limit on the off-shell Higgs boson event yield normalised to the standard model prediction of 2.4 (6.2) is obtained at the 95% CL for the gluon fusion process and of 19.3 (34.4) for the vector boson fusion process. Observed and expected limits on the total width of 26 and 66 MeV are found, respectively, at the 95% confidence level (CL). These limits are combined with the previous result in the ZZ channel leading to observed and expected 95% CL upper limits on the width of 13 and 26 MeV, respectively.
Two Higgs Doublet Model and Model Independent Interpretation of Neutral Higgs Boson Searches. Searches for the neutral Higgs bosons h0 and A0, are used to obtain limits on the Type II Two Higgs Doublet Model (2HDM(II)) with no CP-violation in the Higgs sector and no additional particles besides the five Higgs bosons. The analysis combines approximately 170 pb-1 of data collected with the OPAL detector at sqrts 189 GeV with previous runs at sqrts mZ and sqrts 183 GeV. The searches are sensitive to the h0, A0 -> qq, gg, tau+tau- and h0 -> A0A0 decay modes of the Higgs bosons. For the first time, the 2HDM(II) parameter space is explored in a detailed scan, and new flavour independent analyses are applied to examine regions in which the neutral Higgs bosons decay predominantly into light quarks or gluons. Model-independent limits are also given.
A search for Higgs boson pair production in the b  b ττ final state in proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 8 TeV. Results are presented from a search for production of Higgs boson pairs (HH) where one boson decays to a pair of b quarks and the other to a τ lepton pair. This work is based on proton-proton collision data collected by the CMS experiment at √(s) = 8 TeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 18.3 fb^-1. Resonant and non-resonant modes of HH production have been probed and no significant excess relative to the background-only hypotheses has been found in either mode. Upper limits on cross sections of the two HH production modes have been set. The results have been combined with previously published searches at √(s) = 8 TeV, in decay modes to two photons and two b quarks, as well as to four b quarks, which also show no evidence for a signal. Limits from the combination have been set on resonant HH production by an unknown particle X in the mass range m_X = 300 GeV to m_X = 1000 GeV. For resonant production of spin 0 (spin 2) particles, the observed 95% CL upper limit is 1.13 pb (1.09 pb) at m_X = 300 GeV and to 21 fb (18 fb) at m_X = 1000 GeV. For non-resonant HH production, a limit of 43 times the rate predicted by the standard model has been set.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs Boson at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have collected a total of 2461 pb-1 of e+e- collision data at centre-of-mass energies between 189 and 209 GeV. The data are used to search for the Standard Model Higgs boson. The search results of the four collaborations are combined and examined in a likelihood test for their consistency with two hypotheses: the background hypothesis and the signal plus background hypothesis. The corresponding confidences have been computed as functions of the hypothetical Higgs boson mass. A lower bound of 114.4 GeV/c2 is established, at the 95% confidence level, on the mass of the Standard Model Higgs boson. The LEP data are also used to set upper bounds on the HZZ coupling for various assumptions concerning the decay of the Higgs boson.
Study of the Mass and Spin-Parity of the Higgs Boson Candidate via Its Decays to Z Boson Pairs. A study is presented of the mass and spin-parity of the new boson recently observed at the LHC at a mass near 125 GeV. An integrated luminosity of 17.3 inverse femtobarns, collected by the CMS experiment in proton-proton collisions at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV, is used. The measured mass in the ZZ channel, where both Z bosons decay to e or μ pairs, is 126.2 ± 0.6 (stat.) ± 0.2 (syst.) GeV. The angular distributions of the lepton pairs in this channel are sensitive to the spin-parity of the boson. Under the assumption of spin 0, the present data are consistent with the pure scalar hypothesis, while disfavoring the pure pseudoscalar hypothesis.
Search for Dark Matter Produced in Association with a Higgs Boson Decaying to bb̅ using 36 fb^-1 of pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS Detector. Several extensions of the Standard Model predict associated production of dark-matter particles with a Higgs boson. Such processes are searched for in final states with missing transverse momentum and a Higgs boson decaying to a bb̅ pair with the ATLAS detector using 36.1 fb^-1 of pp collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV at the LHC. The observed data are in agreement with the Standard Model predictions and limits are placed on the associated production of dark-matter particles and a Higgs boson.
Search for doubly charged scalar bosons decaying into same-sign W boson pairs with the ATLAS detector. A search for doubly charged scalar bosons decaying into W boson pairs is presented. It uses a data sample from proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of  36.1 fb^-1 collected by the ATLAS detector at the LHC at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV in 2015 and 2016. This search is guided by a model that includes an extension of the Higgs sector through a scalar triplet, leading to a rich phenomenology that includes doubly charged scalar bosons H^±±. Those bosons are produced in pairs in proton-proton collisions and decay predominantly into electroweak gauge bosons H^±±→ W^± W^±. Experimental signatures with several leptons, missing transverse energy and jets are explored. No significant deviations from the Standard Model predictions are found. The parameter space of the benchmark model is excluded at 95% confidence level for H^±± bosons with masses between 200 and 220 GeV.
Search for additional heavy neutral Higgs and gauge bosons in the ditau final state produced in 36 fb^−1 of pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. A search for heavy neutral Higgs bosons and Z^' bosons is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1 from proton-proton collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC during 2015 and 2016. The heavy resonance is assumed to decay to τ^+τ^- with at least one tau lepton decaying to final states with hadrons and a neutrino. The search is performed in the mass range of 0.2-2.25 TeV for Higgs bosons and 0.2-4.0 TeV for Z^' bosons. The data are in good agreement with the background predicted by the Standard Model. The results are interpreted in benchmark scenarios. In the context of the hMSSM scenario, the data exclude tanβ > 1.0 for m_A = 0.25 TeV and tanβ > 42 for m_A = 1.5 TeV at the 95% confidence level. For the Sequential Standard Model, Z^'_SSM with m_Z^' < 2.42 TeV is excluded at 95% confidence level, while Z^'_NU with m_Z^' < 2.25 TeV is excluded for the non-universal G(221) model that exhibits enhanced couplings to third-generation fermions.
Search for charged Higgs bosons decaying via H^±→τ^±ν in fully hadronic final states using pp collision data at √(s) = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The results of a search for charged Higgs bosons decaying to a τ lepton and a neutrino, H^±→τ^±ν, are presented. The analysis is based on 19.5 fb^-1 of proton–proton collision data at √(s)=8 TeV collected by the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. Charged Higgs bosons are searched for in events consistent with top-quark pair production or in associated production with a top quark. The final state is characterised by the presence of a hadronic τ decay, missing transverse momentum, b-tagged jets, a hadronically decaying W boson, and the absence of any isolated electrons or muons with high transverse momenta. The data are consistent with the expected background from Standard Model processes. A statistical analysis leads to 95% confidence-level upper limits on the product of branching ratios B(t→ bH^±) × B(H^±→τ^±ν), between 0.23% and 1.3% for charged Higgs boson masses in the range 80–160 GeV. It also leads to 95% confidence-level upper limits on the production cross section times branching ratio, σ(pp → tH^± + X) × B(H^±→τ^±ν), between 0.76 pb and 4.5 fb, for charged Higgs boson masses ranging from 180 GeV to 1000 GeV. In the context of different scenarios of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model, these results exclude nearly all values of tanβ above one for charged Higgs boson masses between 80 GeV and 160 GeV, and exclude a region of parameter space with high tanβ for H^± masses between 200 GeV and 250 GeV.
Determination of the LEP centre-of-mass energy from Zγ events. Radiative returns to the Z resonance (Zγevents) are used to determine the LEP2 centre-of-mass energy from the data collected with the ALEPH detector in 1997. The average centre-of-mass energy is measured to be: E_CM = 182.50 +- 0.19 (stat.) +- 0.08 (syst.) GeV in good agreement with the precise determination by the LEP energy working group of 182.652 +- 0.050 GeV. If applied to the measurement of the W mass, its precision translates into a systematic error on M_W which is smaller than the statistical error achieved from the corresponding dataset.
Search for the Standard Model Higgs boson in e^+ e^- interactions at √(s) = 183 GeV. A search for the Standard Model Higgs boson is performed with the L3 detector at LEP. The data sample, corresponding to a luminosity of 55.3 pb^-1, was collected at an average centre-of-mass energy of 182.7 GeV. No Higgs signal is observed, leading to a lower limit on the Higgs boson mass of 87.6 GeV at the 95% confidence level.
Search for heavy resonances decaying into two Higgs bosons or into a Higgs boson and a W or Z boson in proton-proton collisions at 13 TeV. A search is presented for massive narrow resonances decaying either into two Higgs bosons, or into a Higgs boson and a W or Z boson. The decay channels considered are HH→bbτ^+τ^- and VH→qqτ^+τ^-, where H denotes the Higgs boson, and V denotes the W or Z boson. This analysis is based on a data sample of proton-proton collisions collected at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV by the CMS Collaboration, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. For the TeV-scale mass resonances considered, substructure techniques provide ways to differentiate among the hadronization products from vector boson decays to quarks, Higgs boson decays to bottom quarks, and quark- or gluon-induced jets. Reconstruction techniques are used that have been specifically optimized to select events in which the tau lepton pair is highly boosted. The observed data are consistent with standard model expectations and upper limits are set at 95% confidence level on the product of cross section and branching fraction for resonance masses between 0.9 and 4.0 TeV. Exclusion limits are set in the context of bulk radion and graviton models: spin-0 radion resonances are excluded below a mass of 2.7 TeV at 95% confidence level. In the spin-1 heavy vector triplet framework, mass-degenerate W' and Z' resonances with dominant couplings to the standard model gauge bosons are excluded below a mass of 2.8 TeV at 95% confidence level. There are the first limits for these decay channels at √(s)= 13 TeV.
Search for a heavy pseudoscalar boson decaying to a Z and a Higgs boson at √(s) = 13 TeV. A search is presented for a heavy pseudoscalar boson A decaying to a Z boson and the standard model Higgs boson. In the final state considered, the Higgs boson decays to a bottom quark and antiquark, and the Z boson decays either into a pair of electrons, muons, or neutrinos. The analysis is performed using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1 collected in 2016 by the CMS experiment at the LHC from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The data are found to be consistent with the background expectations. Exclusion limits are set in the context of two-Higgs-doublet models in the A boson mass range between 225 and 1000 GeV.
Measurements of gluon-gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion Higgs boson production cross-sections in the H → WW^∗→ eνμν decay channel in pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Higgs boson production cross-sections in proton-proton collisions are measured in the H → WW^∗→ eνμν decay channel. The proton–proton collision data were produced at the Large Hadron Collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 13 TeV and recorded by the ATLAS detector in 2015 and 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 36.1 fb^-1. The product of the H → WW^∗ branching fraction times the gluon–gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion cross-sections are measured to be 11.4 ^+1.2_-1.1 (stat.) ^+1.8_-1.7(syst.) pb and 0.50 ^+0.24_-0.22 (stat.) ± 0.17(syst.) pb, respectively, in agreement with Standard Model predictions.
Combined measurements of Higgs boson production and decay using up to 80 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data at √(s)= 13 TeV  collected with the ATLAS experiment. Combined measurements of Higgs boson production cross sections and branching fractions are presented. The combination is based on the analyses of the Higgs boson decay modes H →γγ, ZZ^∗, WW^∗, ττ, bb̅, μμ, searches for decays into invisible final states, and on measurements of off-shell Higgs boson production. Up to 79.8 fb^-1 of proton-proton collision data collected at √(s)= 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector are used. Results are presented for the gluon-gluon fusion and vector-boson fusion processes, and for associated production with vector bosons or top-quarks. The global signal strength is determined to be μ = 1.11^+0.09_-0.08. The combined measurement yields an observed (expected) significance for the vector-boson fusion production process of 6.5σ (5.3σ). Measurements in kinematic regions defined within the simplified template cross section framework are also shown. The results are interpreted in terms of modifiers applied to the Standard Model couplings of the Higgs boson to other particles, and are used to set exclusion limits on parameters in two-Higgs-doublet models and in the simplified Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model. No significant deviations from Standard Model predictions are observed.
Search for new neutral Higgs bosons through the H→ Z A→ℓ^+ℓ^-bb̅ process in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV. This paper reports on a search for an extended scalar sector of the standard model, where a new CP-even (odd) boson decays to a Z boson and a lighter CP-odd (even) boson, and the latter further decays to a b quark pair. The Z boson is reconstructed via its decays to electron or muon pairs. The analysed data were recorded in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy √(s) = 13 TeV, collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC during 2016, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb^-1. Data and predictions from the standard model are in agreement within the uncertainties. Upper limits at 95% confidence level are set on the production cross section times branching fraction, with masses of the new bosons up to 1000 GeV. The results are interpreted in the context of the two-Higgs-doublet model.
Measurement of the associated production of a Higgs boson decaying into b-quarks with a vector boson at high transverse momentum in pp collisions at √(s) = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. The associated production of a Higgs boson with a W or Z boson decaying into leptons and where the Higgs boson decays to a bb̅ pair is measured in the high vector-boson transverse momentum regime, above 250 GeV, with the ATLAS detector. The analysed data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1, were collected in proton-proton collisions at the Large Hadron Collider between 2015 and 2018 at a centre-of-mass energy of √(s) = 13 TeV. The measured signal strength, defined as the ratio of the measured signal yield to that predicted by the Standard Model, is 0.72 ^+0.39_-0.36 corresponding to an observed (expected) significance of 2.1 (2.7) standard deviations. Cross-sections of associated production of a Higgs boson decaying into b quark pairs with a W or Z gauge boson, decaying into leptons, are measured in two exclusive transverse momentum regions, 250-400 GeV and above 400 GeV, and interpreted as constraints on anomalous couplings in the framework of a Standard Model effective field theory.
Search for heavy Higgs bosons decaying into two tau leptons with the ATLAS detector using pp collisions at √(s)=13 TeV. A search for heavy neutral Higgs bosons is performed using the LHC Run 2 data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 139 fb^-1 of proton-proton collisions at √(s)=13 TeV recorded with the ATLAS detector. The search for heavy resonances is performed over the mass range 0.2-2.5 TeV for the τ^+τ^- decay with at least one τ-lepton decaying into final states with hadrons. The data are in good agreement with the background prediction of the Standard Model. In the M_h^125 scenario of the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model, values of tanβ>8 and tanβ>21 are excluded at the 95% confidence level for m_A=1.0 TeV and m_A=1.5 TeV, respectively.
A Measurement of Semileptonic B Decays to Narrow Orbitally-Excited Charm Mesons. The decay chain b -> Bbar -> D^**0 l nu X, D^**0 -> D^*+ pi^-, D^*+ -> D^0 pi^+, D^0 ->(Kpi or K3pi) is identified in a sample of 3.9 million hadronic Z decays collected with the OPAL detector at LEP. The branching ratio BR (b -> Bbar) x BR (Bbar -> D^0_1 l nu X) x BR (D^0_1 -> D^*+ pi^-) is measured to be (2.64 +- 0.79 (stat) +- 0.39 (syst)) X 10^-3 for the J^P = 1^+ (D^0_1) state. For decays into the J^P = 2^+ (D^*0_2) state, an upper limit of 1.4 X 10^-3 is placed on the branching ratio at the 95% confidence level.
Search for neutral MSSM Higgs bosons at LEP. The four LEP collaborations, ALEPH, DELPHI, L3 and OPAL, have searched for the neutral Higgs bosons which are predicted by the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM). The data of the four collaborations are statistically combined and examined for their consistency with the background hypothesis and with a possible Higgs boson signal. The combined LEP data show no significant excess of events which would indicate the production of Higgs bosons. The search results are used to set upper bounds on the cross-sections of various Higgs-like event topologies. The results are interpreted within the MSSM in a number of benchmark models, including CP-conserving and CP-violating scenarios. These interpretations lead in all cases to large exclusions in the MSSM parameter space. Absolute limits are set on the parameter tanb and, in some scenarios, on the masses of neutral Higgs bosons.
Searches for a heavy scalar boson H decaying to a pair of 125 GeV Higgs bosons hh or for a heavy pseudoscalar boson A decaying to Zh, in the final states with h→ττ. A search for a heavy scalar boson H decaying into a pair of lighter standard-model-like 125 GeV Higgs bosons h and a search for a heavy pseudoscalar boson A decaying into a Z and an h boson are presented. The searches are performed on a dataset corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 19.7 fb^-1 of pp collision data at a centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV, collected by CMS in 2012. A final state consisting of two τ leptons and two b jets is used to search for the H → h h decay. A final state consisting of two τ leptons from the h boson decay, and two additional leptons from the Z boson decay, is used to search for the decay A → Z h. The results are interpreted in the context of both the minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model and two-Higgs-doublet models. No excess is found above the standard model expectation and upper limits are set on the heavy boson production cross sections in the mass ranges 260 < m_H < 350 GeV and 220 < m_A < 350 GeV.
